

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Autopark

This feature may be temporarily limited or inactive until it is enabled with a
future software update for vehicles manufactured as of approximately October
2022.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

_Depending on market region, vehicle configuration, options purchased, and
software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Autopark._

Autopark uses data to simplify parking on public roads by maneuvering Model 3
into parallel and perpendicular parking spaces.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Ensure all cameras and sensors (if equipped) are clean. Dirty cameras and
sensors, as well as environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane
markings, can affect Autopilot performance.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Autopark's performance depends on the ability of the cameras and sensors (if
equipped) to determine the vehicle's proximity to curbs, objects, and other
vehicles.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not use Autopark if anything, such as a ball hitch, bike rack, or trailer,
is attached to the tow hitch. Autopark may not stop for hitches when parking
between or in front of other vehicles.

**Parent topic:** Autopilot

## Parameters

Autopark detects potential parking spaces based on the following parameters:

**Perpendicular Parking**

  * Your driving speed must be below 8 mph (13 km/h). If driving too fast, Autopark may not be able to accurately detect your desired parking space.
  * The parking space must be at least 7.2 feet (2.2 meters) wide.
  * The parking space must have at least three visible lines for the vehicle to park into, such as parking lines, road markings, or distinct curbs. Autopark may not work in a garage, for example, without three visible parking lines.
  * Autopark may not work with textured road surfaces such as cobblestone or brick.

**Parallel Parking**

  * Your driving speed must be below 13 mph (21 km/h). If driving too fast, Autopark may not be able to accurately detect your desired parking space.
  * There must be a vehicle in front of the space you want to park in.
  * A distinct curb or edge must be visible. Autopark may not correctly identify the parking space if the curb is not distinct, such as grass or dirt.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Autopark does not operate on angled parking spaces.

## To Use Autopark

When driving, follow these steps to allow Autopark to maneuver Model 3 into a
parking space:

  1. While driving slowly on a public road, monitor the touchscreen to determine when Autopark has detected a parking space. The touchscreen will display a parking icon if the vehicle detects a potential parking spot. ![Screenshot of a potential parking space displayed with the icon shown.](../../images/GUID-72918BF9-437D-4584-8A14-78F40F535D96-online-en-US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The parking icon appears only if the vehicle's position and/or the
circumstances of the surrounding area are such that Autopark can determine an
appropriate driving path. If Autopark cannot determine an appropriate path
(for example, when driving on a narrow street where moving into the parking
space causes the front of the vehicle to extend into the adjacent lane), you
can either reposition the vehicle, find a different parking space, or park
manually.

  2. Check to determine if the detected parking space is appropriate and safe.  Pull forward and stop approximately one car length ahead of the parking space (as you normally would when parallel parking or when backing into a perpendicular parking space).
  3. Release the steering wheel, shift Model 3 into Reverse, then touch Start Autopark on the touchscreen.
  4. Autopark displays a message when parking is complete.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If you press the brake pedal when Autopark is actively parking Model 3, the
parking process pauses until you touch Resume on the touchscreen.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never depend on Autopark to find a parking space that is legal, suitable, and
safe. Autopark may not always detect objects in the parking space. Always
perform visual checks to confirm that a parking space is appropriate and safe.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When Autopark is actively steering Model 3, the steering wheel moves in
accordance with Autopark's adjustments. Do not interfere with the movement of
the steering wheel. Doing so cancels Autopark.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

During the parking sequence, continually check your surroundings. Be prepared
to apply the brakes to avoid vehicles, pedestrians, or objects.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When Autopark is active, monitor the touchscreen to ensure that you are aware
of the instructions that Autopark is providing.

## To Pause Parking

To pause Autopark, press the brake pedal once. Model 3 stops and remains
stopped until you touch Resume on the touchscreen.

## To Cancel Parking

Autopark cancels the parking sequence when you manually move the steering
wheel, shift, or touch Cancel on the touchscreen. Autopark also cancels
parking when:

  * The parking sequence exceeds seven moves.
  * Model 3 detects that the driver is exiting the vehicle.
  * A door is opened.
  * You press the accelerator pedal.
  * You press the brake pedal while Autopark is paused.
  * An Automatic Emergency Braking event occurs (see Collision Avoidance Assist).

## Limitations

Autopark is particularly unlikely to operate as intended in these situations:

  * The road is sloped. Autopark is designed to operate on flat roads only.
  * Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow, fog, etc.).
  * The curb is constructed of material other than stone, or the curb cannot be detected.
  * The target parking space is directly adjacent to a wall or pillar (for example, the last parking space of a row in an underground parking structure).
  * One or more of the sensors (if equipped) or cameras is damaged, dirty, or obstructed (such as by mud, ice, or snow, or by a vehicle bra, excessive paint, or adhesive products such as wraps, stickers, rubber coating, etc.).
  * Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are interfering with sensor (if equipped) operation.
  * The sensors (if equipped) are affected by other electrical equipment or devices that generate ultrasonic waves.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Many unforeseen circumstances can impair Autopark's ability to park Model 3.
Keep this in mind and remember that as a result, Autopark may not steer Model
3 appropriately. Pay attention when parking Model 3 and stay prepared to
immediately take control.

  