

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Child Safety Seats

**Parent topic:** Seating and Safety Restraints

## Guidelines for Seating Children

Your Model 3 seat belts are designed for adults and larger children. You must
restrain infants and small children in the second row seats only, and you must
use a suitable child safety seat appropriate for the child’s age, weight, and
size.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never seat a child on a seat with an ACTIVE AIRBAG in front of it. DEATH or
SERIOUS INJURY to the child can occur. See Airbag Status Indicator.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not associate the Easy Entry setting with the driver's profile when a child
is seated in the second row. Doing so can cause the driver's seat to push
against the child, especially when a child is seated in a forward-facing child
seat or booster seat. Do not rely on Model 3 to recognize or accommodate a
child seated in the second row while using this setting (see Driver Profiles).

Refer to the following label located on the sun visors.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The image shown below is representative only and may not be identical to the
label(s) in your vehicle.

![Airbag warning label located on the sun visor that depicts a child seated in
the second row and a passenger with a deployed air bag seated in the first
row](../../images/GUID-FA6B5B97-B53B-4D04-ADAC-FC84504E809D-online-en-US.png)

## Choosing a Child Safety Seat

All children age 12 and under should ride in the second and third row seats.
Always use a child safety seat suitable for a young child’s age and weight.
The following table is based on child safety seat recommendations determined
by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in the United
States (for more information, go to www.nhtsa.gov/ChildSafety/Guidance).

Category | Infants | Toddlers | Young children  
---|---|---|---  
Age | Birth to 1 year* | Over 1 year* | 4 years and older, and less than 57
in. (145 cm) tall  
Weight | Up to at least 20 lbs (9 kg)** | Over 20 lbs (9 kg) (minimum) and up
to 40 lbs (18 kg)* | Over 40 lbs (18 kg)  
Type of child safety seat | Rear facing (or convertible) | Forward facing (or
convertible)* | Seat belt retained booster seat  
Seat position | Rear facing only* | Forward facing* | Forward facing  
Recommended attachment method | If combined weight of child and safety seat is
up to 65 lbs (29.5 kg), attach using either LATCH** (lower anchor only) or the
seat belt only.*** If combined weight of child and safety seat is over 65 lbs
(29.5 kg), attach using the seat belt only.*** | If combined weight of child
and safety seat is up to 65 lbs (29.5 kg), attach using either LATCH** (both
lower anchors and top tether anchor), or the seat belt and upper tether
strap.*** If combined weight of child and safety seat is over 65 lbs (29.5
kg), attach using the seat belt and upper tether strap.*** | Attach booster
seats using the seat belt only.  
  
*** Many child safety seats currently available allow children to ride rear-
facing using the child safety seat’s integrated 5-point harness for a longer
period of time BASED UPON SPECIFIC HEIGHT AND WEIGHT LIMITS. Keep your child
in a rear facing seat for as long as possible. CHECK THE CHILD SAFETY SEAT
MANUFACTURER’S INSTRUCTIONS AND CAREFULLY FOLLOW ALL INSTRUCTIONS**

** **ISOFIX** is the international standard for attachment points for child
safety seats in passenger cars. The system has other regional names including
**LATCH** ("Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children") in the United States and
**LUAS** ("Lower Universal Anchorage System") or **Canfix** in Canada. It has
also been called the "Universal Child Safety Seat System" or **UCSSS**.

***** Subject to instructions provided by the child safety seat
manufacturer.**  
  
Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Laws that govern how and where children should be carried when traveling in a
vehicle are subject to change. It is the driver’s responsibility to keep up to
date on, and comply with, all current regulations in the region(s) where Model
3 is driven. To check the child passenger safety laws for states in the U.S.,
go to: http://www.ghsa.org/html/stateinfo/laws/childsafety_laws.html.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not use LATCH/Isofix/i-Size anchors with child restraint system or booster
seats that have an integral safety belt where the combined weight of the child
plus the child restraint system exceeds 65 lbs (29.5 kg).

## Seating Larger Children

If a child is too large to fit into a child safety seat, but too small to
safely fit into the standard seat belts, use a booster seat appropriate for
the child’s age and size. Carefully follow the manufacturer’s instructions to
secure the booster seat.

## Installing Child Safety Seats

There are two general methods used to install child safety seats:

  * Seat belt retained - these seats are secured using the vehicle’s seat belts.
  * LATCH retained - these seats attach to anchor bars built into the vehicle’s rear seats. 

Check the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions and the table provided
in this document to determine which installation method to use. Some child
safety seats can be installed using either method. Always follow the child
safety seat manufacturer’s instructions.

## Installing Seat Belt Retained Child Seats

First, make sure that the child safety seat is appropriate for the weight,
height, and age of the child.

Avoid dressing the child in bulky clothing and do not place any objects
between the child and the restraint system.

Adjust harnesses for every child, every trip.

To securely hold child safety seats, all passenger seating positions are
equipped with an automatic locking retractor (ALR) that, by pulling the seat
belt beyond the length needed for a typical adult occupant, locks the belt
into place until the seat belt is unbuckled and the webbing is fully
retracted. The ALR mechanism operates as a ratchet, winding in slack and
preventing the seat belt from extending any further until it has been
completely rewound. When installing a child safety seat, engage the belt's
automatic locking retractor by pulling the seat belt webbing until it is
**fully** extended. The ALR system engages only when the seat belt is at its
maximum extension point.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

An automatic locking retractor disengages only when the seat belt is unbuckled
and fully retracted. The belt can then be worn as a normal belt, sliding
freely in and out and locking tight only in an emergency. Once disengaged, the
belt must be fully extended to re-engage the locking mechanism whenever you
install a child safety seat.

Always follow the detailed instructions provided by the child safety seat
manufacturer. General guidelines are provided below.

  1. Place the child safety seat in Model 3, and fully extend the seat belt. Route and buckle the seat belt in accordance with the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions.![A child safety seat buckled into a passenger seat using the vehicle's seat belt.](../../images/GUID-BB9C23FA-665D-4800-8579-CCA063496F84-online-en-US.png)
  2. Allow the seat belt to retract, and remove all slack in the seat belt while firmly pushing the child safety seat into the Model 3 seat.
  3. If the seat belt retained child safety seat has an upper tether, attach it to the back of the seat (see Attaching Upper Tether Straps).

## Installing LATCH (ISOFIX) Child Seats

Lower LATCH anchors are provided in the second row outboard seats. The anchors
are located between the seat's back rest and rear cushion. The exact location
of each anchor is identified by a child safety seat identification button,
illustrated below. The button is located on the seat back, directly above its
associated anchor.

![The ISOFIX icon and arrows showing the location of ISOFIX
latches.](../../images/GUID-8C010BDA-984A-4A0F-8E62-24406AA87699-online-en-
US.png)

In the second row, install LATCH child safety seats in the outboard seating
positions only. Use only a seat belt retained seat in the center position.

![Two green check marks on outboard second row seats and a red X on the center
seat](../../images/GUID-5504027F-D299-412A-9C2C-DDF99209DF55-online-en-US.png)

To install a LATCH child safety seat, slide the safety seat latches onto the
anchor bars until they click into place. Carefully read and follow the
instructions provided by the child safety seat manufacturer.

![Correct child safety seat positioning onto ISOFIX anchor
bars](../../images/GUID-26CBEB0B-F2A2-47A0-A89D-5E9D6F7842BF-online-en-US.png)

Once installed, test the security of the installation before seating a child.
Attempt to twist the child safety seat from side to side and try to pull it
away from the seat, then check to ensure the anchors remain securely in place.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Lower LATCH anchors should not be used with child seats or booster seats that
have an integrated safety belt in situations where the combined weight of the
child plus the child restraint is more than 65 lbs (29.5 kg). In these
situations, use the safety belt instead.

## Attaching Upper Tether Straps

If an upper tether strap is provided, attach its hook to the anchor point
located on the shelf behind the rear seats.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Tighten upper tether straps according to the instructions provided by the
manufacturer of the child safety seat.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

**USE ONLY SEAT BELT RETAINED CHILD SAFETY SEATS IN THE CENTER SEATING
POSITION.**

![Location of anchor points behind the rear
seats](../../images/GUID-3991FF7A-971A-4842-B753-D60425B82822-online-en-
US.png)

To access an anchor point, press down on the back of its cover.

![1\)Anchor point cover 2\) Anchor point cover being pushed 3\) Tether strap
hooking into anchor](../../images/GUID-1BB69E4F-86F3-4942-97F2-437ECAA522ED-
online-en-US.png)

For dual-strap tethers, position a strap on each side of the head support.

![Straps positioned on either side of the head support](../../images/GUID-
FCECA324-1BB5-49DE-9FCB-8ED1A99DE6AE-online-en-US.png)

For single-strap tethers at the outboard seating positions, run the strap over
the outside-facing side of the head support (same side of the head support as
the seat belt retraction mechanism).

![Strap running over outside of head
support](../../images/GUID-27DE360F-5428-4022-8B01-3CA4CBABFC79-online-en-
US.png)

If running the strap over the outside-facing side of the head support is not
possible (such as there is not enough slack in the strap), raise the head
support  (see Head Supports) and run the strap under the head support.

![](../../images/GUID-11F16921-F34B-42CA-B6D6-04568E7552B9-online-en-US.png)

For a single-strap tether in the center seating position, fully lower the head
support (see Head Supports) and run the strap over the top center of the head
support.

![Strap running up and over the middle of the center
seat](../../images/GUID-848B2472-0E2F-44C0-ADA4-63BB5F7C094C-online-en-US.png)

## Testing a Child Safety Seat

Before seating a child, always make sure the child safety seat is not loose:

  1. Hold the child safety seat by the belt path and try to slide the safety seat from side to side and front to back.
  2. If the seat moves more than one inch (2.5 cm), it is too loose. Tighten the belt or reconnect the LATCH retained child safety seat.
  3. If you are unable to reduce slack, try a different seat location or try another child safety seat.

## Child Safety Seat Warnings

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Extreme hazard! Do not seat a child on the front passenger seat even if you
are using a child safety seat. This seat has an airbag in front of it.
Although this airbag is disabled when Model 3 detects a lightweight passenger,
do not rely on technology to protect your child.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Child restraint systems are designed to be secured in vehicle seats by lap
belts or the lap belt portion of a lap-shoulder belt. Children could be
endangered in a crash if their child restraints are not properly secured in
the vehicle.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

According to collision statistics, children are safer when properly restrained
in the rear seating positions than in the front seating positions.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not use a forward facing child safety seat until your child weighs over 20
lbs (9 kg) and can sit independently. Up to the age of two, a child's spine
and neck are not sufficiently developed to avoid injury in a frontal impact.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not allow a baby or infant to be held on a lap. All children should be
restrained in an appropriate child safety seat at all times.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

To ensure children are safely seated, follow all instructions provided in this
document and by the manufacturer of the child safety seat.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Children should ride in a rear facing child safety seat using the seat’s
integrated 5-point harness for as long as possible.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not use seat belt extenders on a seat belt that is being used to install a
child safety seat or booster seat.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When seating larger children, make sure the child's head is supported and the
child’s seat belt is properly adjusted and fastened. The shoulder portion of
the belt must be away from the face and neck, and the lap portion must not be
over the stomach.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never attach two child safety seats to one anchor point. In a collision, one
anchor point may be incapable of securing both seats.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Child restraint anchors are designed to withstand only those loads imposed by
correctly fitted child restraints. Under no circumstances are they to be used
for adult seat belts, harnesses, or for attaching other items or equipment to
the vehicle.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Always check harnesses and tether straps for damage and wear.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never leave a child unattended, even if the child is secured in a child safety
seat.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never use a child safety seat that has been involved in a collision. Have the
seat inspected or replaced as described in the child safety seat
manufacturer’s instructions.

  