

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# High Voltage Battery Information

**Parent topic:** Charging and Energy Consumption

## About the High Voltage Battery

Model 3 has one of the most sophisticated battery systems in the world. The
most important way to preserve the high voltage Battery is to LEAVE YOUR
VEHICLE PLUGGED IN when you are not using it. This is particularly important
if you are not planning to drive Model 3 for several weeks.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

When left idle and unplugged, your vehicle periodically uses energy from the
Battery for system tests and recharging the low voltage battery when
necessary.

There is no advantage to waiting until the Battery’s level is low before
charging. In fact, the Battery performs best when charged regularly.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If you allow the Battery to discharge to 0%, other components may become
damaged or require replacement (for example, the low voltage battery). In
these cases, you are responsible for repair and/or transporting expenses.
Discharge-related expenses are not covered by the warranty or under the
Roadside Assistance policy.

The peak charging rate of the Battery may decrease slightly after a large
number of DC Fast Charging sessions, such as those at Superchargers. To ensure
maximum driving range and Battery safety, the Battery charge rate is decreased
when the Battery is too cold, when the Battery’s charge is nearly full, and
when the Battery conditions change with usage and age. These changes in the
condition of the Battery are driven by battery physics and may increase the
total Supercharging duration by a few minutes over time. You can minimize the
amount of charge time by using Trip Planner (if available in your market
region) to warm the Battery while driving to a Supercharger. See Trip Planner
for more information.

## Battery Care

Never allow the Battery to fully discharge. Even when Model 3 is not being
driven, its Battery discharges very slowly to power the onboard electronics.
The Battery can discharge at a rate of approximately 1% per day, though the
discharge rate may vary depending on environmental factors (such as cold
weather), vehicle configuration, and your selected settings on the
touchscreen. Situations can arise in which you must leave Model 3 unplugged
for an extended period of time (for example, at an airport when traveling). In
these situations, keep the 1% in mind to ensure that you leave the Battery
with a sufficient charge level. For example, over a two week period (14 days),
the Battery may discharge by approximately 14%.

Discharging the Battery to 0% may result in damage to vehicle components. To
protect against a complete discharge, Model 3 enters a low-power consumption
mode when the displayed charge level drops to approximately 0%. In this mode,
the Battery stops supporting the onboard electronics and auxiliary low voltage
battery. Once this low-power consumption mode is active, immediately plug in
Model 3 to prevent a jump start and low voltage battery replacement.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If Model 3 is unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the low
voltage battery may be discharged. In this situation, try jump starting the
low voltage battery (see Jump Starting). If the vehicle is still unresponsive,
contact Tesla.

### Temperature Limits

For better long-term performance, avoid exposing Model 3 to ambient
temperatures above 140° F (60° C) or below -22° F (-30° C) for more than 24
hours at a time.

### Energy Saving Feature

Model 3 has an energy-saving feature that reduces the amount of energy being
consumed by the displays when Model 3 is not in use. On newer vehicles, this
feature is automated to provide an optimal level of energy saving. However, on
older vehicles, you can control the amount of energy being consumed by the
displays by touching Controls > Display > Energy Saving. For more information
on maximizing range and saving energy, see Getting Maximum Range.

### Lithium Iron Phosphate Batteries

Some vehicles are equipped with a Lithium Iron Phosphate (LFP) Battery. To
determine if your vehicle is equipped with an LFP battery, navigate to
Controls > Software > Additional Vehicle Information. If your vehicle is
equipped with an LFP battery, "High Voltage Battery type: Lithium Iron
Phosphate" is listed. If your vehicle does not have an LFP battery, the high
voltage Battery type is not specified.

If your vehicle is equipped with an LFP Battery, Tesla recommends that you
keep your charge limit set to 100%, even for daily use, and that you also
fully charge to 100% at least once per week. If Model 3 has been parked for
longer than a week, Tesla recommends driving as you normally would and charge
to 100% at your earliest convenience.

In addition, a best practice is to allow Model 3 to "sleep" regularly by
parking it with Sentry Mode disabled, when possible. Consider using the
Exclude Home, Exclude Work, and Exclude Favorites settings to prevent Sentry
Mode from automatically activating at locations it is not needed (see How to
Use Sentry Mode (Camera + App)).

Following the above guidance maximizes available range and improves the
vehicle's ability to accurately determine the state of charge and estimated
range.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Although Tesla recommends charging to 100% at least once per week, remember
that regenerative braking is reduced while driving with a fully charged
battery. See Regenerative Braking.

### Submerged Vehicle

As with any electric vehicle, if your Tesla has been exposed to flooding,
extreme weather events or has otherwise been submerged in water (especially in
salt water), treat it as if it’s been in an accident and contact your
insurance company for support. Do not attempt to operate the vehicle before
Tesla Service has inspected it, but you should tow or move it away from any
structures.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Damage caused by water is not covered under warranty.

### Battery Warnings and Cautions

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

The Battery has no parts that an owner or a non-Tesla authorized service
technician can service. Under no circumstances should you open or tamper with
the Battery. Always contact Tesla to arrange for Battery servicing.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

If the Battery’s charge level falls to 0%, you must plug it in. If you leave
it unplugged for an extended period, it may not be possible to charge or use
Model 3 without jump starting or replacing the low voltage battery. Leaving
Model 3 unplugged for an extended period can also result in permanent Battery
damage. If you are unable to charge Model 3 after attempting to jump start the
low voltage battery, contact Tesla immediately.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

The Battery requires no owner maintenance. Do not remove the coolant filler
cap and do not add fluid. If the touchscreen warns you that the fluid level is
low, contact Tesla immediately.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Do not use the Battery as a stationary power source. Doing so voids the
warranty.

  