

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Seat Belts

**Parent topic:** Seating and Safety Restraints

## Wearing Seat Belts

Using seat belts and child safety seats is the most effective way to protect
occupants if a collision occurs. Therefore, wearing a seat belt is required by
law in most jurisdictions.

Both the driver and passenger seats are equipped with three-point inertia reel
seat belts. Inertia reel belts are automatically tensioned to allow occupants
to move comfortably during normal driving conditions. To securely hold child
safety seats, all passenger seating positions are equipped with an automatic
locking retractor (ALR) feature that, by fully extracting the seat belt
(beyond the length needed for a typical adult occupant), locks the belt into
place until the seat belt is unbuckled.

The seat belt reel automatically locks to prevent movement of occupants if
Model 3 experiences a force associated with hard acceleration, braking,
cornering, or an impact in a collision.

## Seat Belt Reminders

![a red person with their seat belt
fastened](../../images/GUID-B993559B-1D17-4488-AD32-0FE835C68CC3-online-en-
US.png)

The seat belt reminder on the touchscreen alerts you if a seat belt for an
occupied driver or passenger seat is unbuckled. If all occupants are buckled
up and the reminder stays on, re-buckle seat belts to ensure they are
correctly latched. Also remove any heavy objects (such as a briefcase) from an
unoccupied seat. If the reminder light continues to stay on, contact Tesla.

You can temporarily disable a seat belt reminder associated with a rear
seating position. This is useful when you are carrying an object in a rear
seat that triggers the seat belt reminder alert. To disable the reminder,
touch the associated seat on the seat belt reminder popup message that
displays on the touchscreen when a seat belt reminder is active. When a
reminder is disabled, the seat belt reminder icon is replaced by a seat icon,
for the current drive only. Touch the seat again to re-enable the reminder.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Seat belts must be worn by passengers in all seating positions. Do not disable
a seat belt reminder when the seating position is occupied by a passenger.

## To Fasten a Belt

  1. Ensure correct positioning of the seat (see Correct Driving Position).
  2. Draw the belt out smoothly, ensuring the belt lays flat across the pelvis, chest and mid-point of your collar bone, between the neck and shoulder.
  3. Insert the latch plate into the buckle and press together until you hear a click indicating it is locked in place.![Person putting on seat belt with a zoombox showing an arrow from the latch plate to the buckle](../../images/GUID-F460CA2E-5A8A-4DDA-AB35-66D3AAD709F7-online-en-US.png)
  4. Pull the belt to check that it is securely fastened.
  5. Pull the diagonal part of the belt toward the reel to remove excess slack.

## To Adjust the Shoulder Anchor Height

Model 3 is equipped with an adjustable shoulder anchor for each front seat to
ensure that the seat belt is positioned correctly. The seat belt should lay
flat across the mid-point of your collar bone while in the correct driving
position (see Correct Driving Position). Adjust the height of the shoulder
anchor if the seat belt is not positioned correctly:

  1. Press and hold the button on the shoulder anchor to release the locking mechanism.
  2. While holding the button, move the shoulder anchor up or down, as necessary, to correctly position the seat belt.![Shoulder anchor with arrows up and down with a zoombox showing shoulder anchor button pressed in](../../images/GUID-97F29DA5-70CE-459C-8315-5625EC00C92A-online-en-US.png)
  3. Release the button on the shoulder anchor so that it locks into position.
  4. Without pressing the button, pull on the seat belt webbing and attempt to move the shoulder anchor downward to check that it is locked into position.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Ensure that the seat belt is positioned correctly and that the shoulder anchor
is locked into position before driving. Riding in a moving vehicle with the
seat belt positioned incorrectly or with the shoulder anchor not locked into
position can reduce the effectiveness of the seat belt in a collision.

## To Release a Belt

Hold the belt near the buckle to prevent the belt from retracting too quickly,
then press the button on the buckle. The belt retracts automatically. Ensure
there is no obstruction that prevents the belt from fully retracting. The belt
should not hang loose. If a seat belt does not fully retract, contact Tesla.

## Wearing Seat Belts When Pregnant

Do not put the lap or shoulder sections of the seat belt over the abdominal
area. Wear the lap section of the belt as low as possible across the hips, not
the waist. Position the shoulder portion of the belt between the breasts and
to the side of the abdomen. Consult your doctor for specific guidance.

![Pregnant woman with seat belt positioned between breasts and to the side of
abdomen](../../images/GUID-2FF4DEAB-97AC-4500-A49D-A315305CABA6-online-en-
US.png)

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never place anything between you and the seat belt to cushion the impact in
the event of a collision.

## Seat Belt Pre-tensioners

The front seat belts are equipped with pre‑tensioners that work in conjunction
with the airbags in a severe frontal collision. The pre‑tensioners
automatically retract both the seat belt lower anchor and the upper shoulder
webbing, reducing slack in both the lap and diagonal portions of the belts,
resulting in reduced forward movement of the occupant.

The rear outboard seats are equipped with shoulder pre-tensioners to retract
the seat belt webbing to reduce forward movement of the occupant.

![Person in car seat wearing a seat belt with arrows on the lap belt pointing
to the buckle and arrows on the shoulder portion pointing to the seat belt
anchor](../../images/GUID-25FB8DBC-EA69-409F-973D-658C219CB9F6-online-en-
US.png)

If the pre-tensioners and airbags did not activate in an impact, this does not
mean they malfunctioned. It usually means that the strength or type of force
needed to activate them was not present.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Once the seat belt pre-tensioners have been activated, they must be replaced.
After any collision, have the airbags, seat belt pre-tensioners and any
associated components checked and, if necessary, replaced.

## Testing Seat Belts

To confirm that seat belts are operating correctly, perform these three simple
checks on each seat belt.

  1. With the seat belt fastened, give the webbing nearest the buckle a quick pull. The buckle should remain securely locked.
  2. With the belt unfastened, unreel the webbing to its limit. Check that unreeling is free from snags, and visually check the webbing for wear. Allow the webbing to retract, checking that retraction is smooth and complete.
  3. With the webbing half unreeled, hold the tongue plate and pull forward quickly. The mechanism should lock automatically and prevent further unreeling.

If a seat belt fails any of these tests, contact Tesla immediately.

For information about cleaning seat belts, see Seat Belts.

## Seat Belt Warnings

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Seat belts should be worn by all occupants at all times, even if driving for a
very short distance. Failure to do so increases the risk of injury or death if
a collision occurs.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Secure small children in a suitable child safety seat as described in the
Child Safety Seat topic. Always follow the child safety seat manufacturer's
instructions when installing.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Ensure that all seat belts are worn correctly. An improperly worn seat belt
increases the risk of injury or death if a collision occurs.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not wear seat belts over hard, fragile or sharp items in clothing, such as
pens, keys, eyeglasses, etc. The pressure from the seat belt on such items can
cause injury.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Seat belts should not be worn with any part of the strap twisted.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Each seat belt assembly must be used by one occupant only. It is dangerous to
put a seat belt around a child being carried on an occupant’s lap.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Seat belts that have been worn in a collision must be inspected or replaced by
Tesla, even if damage to the assembly is not obvious.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Seat belts that show signs of wear (such as fraying), or have been cut or
damaged in any way, must be replaced by Tesla.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Avoid contaminating a seat belt’s components with any chemicals, liquids,
grit, dirt or cleaning products. If a seat belt fails to retract or latch into
the buckle, it must be replaced immediately. Contact Tesla.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not make modifications or additions that can prevent a seat belt mechanism
from taking up slack, or that can prevent a seat belt from being adjusted to
remove slack. A slack belt greatly reduces occupant protection.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not make modifications that can interfere with the operation of a seat
belt, or that can cause a seat belt to become inoperable.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not use after market comfort and convenience products that attach to the
seat belts.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When seat belts are not in use, they should be fully retracted and not hanging
loose. If a seat belt does not fully retract, contact Tesla.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

The seat belt system has no user serviceable parts and may contain
pyrotechnics. Do not disassemble, remove, or replace components.

  