

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# About Autopilot

**Parent topic:** Autopilot

## How It Works

Your Model 3 includes the following components that actively monitor the
surrounding area:

![Callouts showing where Autopilot components are located on the
vehicle.](../../images/GUID-2C718327-5AB9-42AF-B5DE-86875A9708EE-online-en-
US.png)

  1. A camera is mounted above the rear license plate.
  2. Ultrasonic sensors (if equipped) are located in the front and rear bumpers.
  3. A camera is mounted in each door pillar.
  4. Three cameras are mounted to the windshield above the rear view mirror.
  5. A camera is mounted to each front fender.
  6. Radar (if equipped) is mounted behind the front bumper.

Model 3 is also equipped with high precision electronically-assisted braking
and steering systems.

In addition, the cabin camera (if equipped) can determine driver
inattentiveness and provide alerts when Autopilot is engaged. By default, data
from the camera does not leave the vehicle itself. In other words, data is not
saved or transmitted unless you enable data sharing. To enable data sharing,
touch Controls > Software > Data Sharing > Allow Cabin Camera Analytics. Cabin
Camera Analytics helps Tesla continue to develop even safer vehicles in the
future. See Cabin Camera.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Ensure all cameras and sensors (if equipped) are clean before each drive. See
Cleaning Cameras and Sensors for more information. Dirty cameras and sensors,
as well as environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can
affect Autopilot performance.

## Active Safety Features

These Active Safety features are designed to increase your safety:

  * Lane Assist (see Lane Assist)
  * Collision Avoidance Assist (see Collision Avoidance Assist)
  * Speed Assist (see Speed Assist)
  * Cabin Camera (see Cabin Camera)

You can enable/disable some of these features and in some cases, control how
they work. To access settings for these features, touch Controls > Autopilot.

## Autopilot Features

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

_Depending on market region, vehicle configuration, options purchased,
software version and build date, your vehicle may not be equipped with all
features listed below, or a feature may not operate as described._

These Autopilot convenience features are designed to reduce driver workload:

  * Traffic-Aware Cruise Control (see Traffic-Aware Cruise Control)
  * Autosteer (see Autosteer)
  * Auto Lane Change (see Auto Lane Change)
  * Autopark (see Autopark)
  * Summon (see Summon)
  * Smart Summon (Smart Summon)
  * Stop Light and Stop Sign Warning (see Stop Light and Stop Sign Warning)
  * Navigate on Autopilot (see Navigate on Autopilot)
  * Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control (see Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control)
  * Full Self-Driving (Beta) (see Full Self-Driving (Beta))

You can enable/disable some of these features and in some cases, control how
they work. To access settings associated with these features, touch Controls >
Autopilot.

## Drive to Calibrate Cameras

Model 3 must maneuver with precision when Autopilot features are being used.
Therefore, before some features can be used for the first time or after some
types of service repairs, cameras must complete a self-calibration process.
For your convenience, the touchscreen displays a progress indicator.

When calibration is complete, Autopilot features are available for use.
Calibration typically completes after driving 20-25 miles (32-40 km), but the
distance varies depending on road and environmental conditions. For example,
calibration completes quicker when driving on a straight road with multiple
lanes (such as a controlled-access highway), with highly-visible lane markings
(in the driving lane as well as the adjacent lanes). Contact Tesla only if
your Model 3 has not completed the calibration process after driving 100 miles
(160 km) in the described conditions.

If a camera has shifted from its calibrated position (for example, the camera
or windshield was replaced), you must clear the calibration. To do so, touch
Controls > Service > Camera Calibration  > Clear Calibration. When the
calibration is cleared, Model 3 repeats the calibration process. While this
helps re-calibrate the cameras in many cases, Clear Calibration may not
resolve all camera and sensor concerns.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

To calibrate, cameras require highly-visible lane markings in both the driving
lane and adjacent lanes (at least two lanes over on each side of the vehicle).
For best results, drive in the middle lane of a multi-lane highway (ideally
with at least five lanes) that has clear lane markings and minimal traffic.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If you attempt to use a feature that is not available until the calibration
process is complete, the feature is disabled and the touchscreen displays a
message.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Model 3 must repeat the calibration process if the cameras are serviced by
Tesla, and in some cases, after a software update.

## Limitations

Many factors can impact the performance of Autopilot components, causing them
to be unable to function as intended. These include (but are not limited to):

  * Poor visibility (due to heavy rain, snow, fog, etc.).
  * Bright light (due to oncoming headlights, direct sunlight, etc.).
  * Damage or obstructions caused by mud, ice, snow, etc.
  * Interference or obstruction by object(s) mounted onto the vehicle (such as a bike rack).
  * Obstruction caused by applying excessive paint or adhesive products (such as wraps, stickers, rubber coating, etc.) onto the vehicle.
  * Traffic signs that do not conform to standard recognizable formats, such as digital or temporary speed signs.
  * Narrow or winding roads.
  * A damaged or misaligned body panel.
  * Use of gray or aftermarket glass.
  * Interference from other equipment that generates ultrasonic waves.
  * Extremely hot or cold temperatures.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

If a windshield replacement is needed, take your vehicle to Tesla Service.
This ensures appropriate handling and mounting of the camera(s). Failure to do
so can cause one or more Autopilot features to malfunction.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

The list above does not represent an exhaustive list of situations that may
interfere with proper operation of Autopilot components. Never depend on these
components to keep you safe. It is the driver's responsibility to stay alert,
drive safely, and be in control of the vehicle at all times.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Advanced safety features may not be available during the calibration period.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Re-calibrating the cameras or sensors (if equipped) on the touchscreen is not
a substitute for checking the physical positioning and condition of these
components. Walk around your vehicle and inspect the cameras and sensors for
physical damage. Incorrectly calibrated or positioned cameras and sensors may
limit or disable the use of safety features. Contact Tesla if you suspect
lingering issues.

## Cleaning Cameras and Sensors

To ensure the various Autopilot components can provide information that is as
accurate as possible, keep cameras and sensors (if equipped) clean and free of
obstructions, condensation, or damage (see Cleaning).

Condensation can form inside the camera enclosures, especially if you park
your vehicle outside in cold or wet conditions. The touchscreen may display an
alert stating that a camera is blocked and that some or all Autopilot features
may be temporarily restricted until the camera vision is clear. To proactively
dry the condensation, precondition the cabin by setting it to a warm
temperature, turning the windshield defroster on, and directing the front air
vents toward the door pillars (see Mobile App).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Do not attempt to remove dirt or debris by wiping an exposed lens with your
hands or a cloth. This debris can damage the surface of the lens when rubbed
against it during wiping.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Do not use chemical-based or abrasive cleaners. Doing so can damage the
surface of the lens.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Do not clean an ultrasonic sensor (if equipped) or camera lens with a sharp or
abrasive object that can scratch or damage its surface.

  