

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Lights

**Parent topic:** Driving

## Controlling Lights

Touch Controls > Lights on the touchscreen to access all light controls, both
interior and exterior.

You can also pull the turn signal stalk toward you to display a popup that
provides quick access to exterior lights. For example, you can turn the
headlights on or off continuously (overriding the default Auto High Beam
setting). The lights popup allows you to adjust all exterior light settings,
including parking lights, fog lights (if equipped), etc. The setting you
choose is retained for the current drive only.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If the touchscreen is already displaying the full Controls screen for lights,
pulling the turn signal stalk does not display the quick access popup.

In addition to the lights you can control from the touchscreen, Model 3 has
convenience lights that operate automatically based on what you are doing. For
example, in low ambient lighting conditions, the interior lights, marker
lights, tail lights, and puddle lights turn on when you unlock Model 3, when
you open a door, and when you shift into Park. They turn off after a minute or
two, when you shift or lock Model 3. Use these settings to control your
vehicle's interior and exterior lights:

Headlights

Exterior lights (headlights, tail lights, side marker lights, parking lights,
and license plate lights) are set to AUTO each time you start Model 3. When
set to AUTO, exterior lights automatically turn on when driving in low
lighting conditions. If you change to a different setting, lights always
revert to AUTO on your next drive.

Touch one of these options to change and retain the exterior light setting
until adjusted again or the next time you drive:

  * Off: Exterior lights turn off. When driving, daytime running lights may remain on based on regulations in various market regions.
  * Parking: Parking lights, side marker lights, tail lights and license plate lights turn on.
  * On: Low beam headlights, side marker lights, parking lights, tail lights, and license plate lights turn on.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Model 3 has a series of LED lights along the rim of the headlights, also
referred to as "signature" lights. These lights automatically turn on whenever
Model 3 is powered on and a drive mode (Drive or Reverse) is engaged.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

The rear tail lights are off when daytime running lights are on. Be sure the
rear lights are on during low rear visibility conditions (for example, when it
is dark, foggy, snowy, or the road is wet, etc.). Failure to do so can cause
damage or serious injury.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Always ensure that headlights are on during low visibility conditions. Failure
to do so may result in a collision.

Fog Lights

A separate control is available to turn on fog lights (if equipped). When on,
fog lights operate whenever low beam headlights are on. When headlights are
turned off, fog lights also turn off.

Dome Lights

Turn the interior dome (map) lights on or off. If set to AUTO, the interior
dome lights turn on when you unlock Model 3, open a door upon exiting, or
shift into Park.

![Two buttons on either side of the rear view
mirror](../../images/GUID-7B93ED1D-3FE8-476F-AAAE-22024715C8B5-online-en-
US.png)

You can also manually turn an individual dome light on or off by pressing its
lens. If you manually turn a dome light on, it turns off when Model 3 powers
off. If Model 3 was already powered off when you manually turned the light on,
it eventually turns off.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

To control the backlighting on the steering wheel buttons, touch Controls >
Lights > Steering Wheel Lights. If on, they turn on whenever headlights are
on.

Ambient Lights

When enabled, interior ambient lights (if equipped) turn on whenever the
headlights are on.

Steering Wheel Lights

If you turn on Steering Wheel Lights, the arrows associated with the scroll
buttons are backlit in low ambient lighting conditions.

## High Beam Headlights

By default, Auto High Beam is enabled to allow high beam headlights to
automatically switch to low beam when there is light detected in front of
Model 3 (for example, from an oncoming vehicle). To control this feature,
touch Controls > Lights > Auto High Beam or touch Auto on the lights popup
that displays on the touchscreen when you pull the turn signal stalk toward
you.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Auto High Beam is automatically enabled when Autosteer is engaged. To switch
to low beam headlights, push the turn signal stalk forward and release. Auto
High Beam is re-enabled every time Autosteer is activated.

In situations where high beam headlights are off (for example, lights are
turned off, or Auto High Beam is active and light is detected in front of
Model 3) or you are driving in daylight, you can temporarily turn on high
beams by pulling the turn signal stalk toward you. When you release, high beam
headlights turn off (unless of course, Auto High Beam is engaged and light is
not detected in front of you). To briefly flash the high beam headlights, pull
the turn signal stalk towards you and immediately release.

![Gear stalk with arrows pointing toward
you](../../images/GUID-2B52FA55-9D3F-4500-84D1-51623D13B914-online-en-US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Your chosen setting is retained until you manually change it.

The following indicator lights are visible on the touchscreen to show the
status of the headlights:

![A green headlight icon with beams of light angling
down](../../images/GUID-4BEE850B-FCE9-4255-B21C-282460C6EA9F-online-en-US.png)

Low beam headlights are on.

![A blue headlight icon with beams of horizontal
light](../../images/GUID-5F71E3D3-E3F5-4BBB-BD11-FBFEB8648037-online-en-
US.png)

High beam headlights are on and Auto High Beam is disabled or currently
unavailable.

![A blue headlight icon with an A with horizontal beams of
light](../../images/GUID-B75EA73B-CC60-421C-9DE7-1563FBA46C97-online-en-
US.png)

Auto High Beam is enabled and high beams are on. Model 3 is ready to turn off
the high beams if light is detected.

![A gray headlight icon with an A with horizontal beams of
light](../../images/GUID-40AEF993-563B-4C2D-9F46-A924E3D27387-online-en-
US.png)

Auto High Beam is enabled but high beams are not on because light is detected
in front of Model 3. When light is no longer detected, high beams
automatically turn back on.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Auto High Beam is an aid only and is subject to limitations. It is the
driver's responsibility to make sure that the headlights are appropriately
adjusted for weather conditions and driving circumstances.

## Headlights After Exit

When Headlights after Exit is on, the exterior headlights remain on when you
stop driving and park Model 3 in low lighting conditions. They automatically
turn off after one minute or when Model 3 locks. When off, headlights turn off
when you engage Park and open a door.

To turn this feature on or off, touch Controls > Lights > Headlights after
Exit.

## Headlight Adjustments

To adjust the angle of the headlights, touch Controls > Service > Adjust
Headlights, then follow the onscreen instructions. You can choose which
headlight you would like to adjust by selecting it on the touchscreen.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Headlights do not require adjustments when temporarily driving into a region
where the traffic direction is different (for example, driving in right-hand
traffic region, and then driving into a region with left-hand traffic).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Proceed with caution when adjusting headlights. Tesla has carefully calibrated
the position of the headlights to be in an optimum position for most driving
scenarios. Tesla recommends that you do not adjust headlights unless you are
familiar with how headlights should be adjusted. Once adjusted, you will be
unable to automatically restore them to their originally calibrated position.
Contact Tesla for assistance when adjusting headlights.

## Turn Signals

The turn signals flash three times or continuously, depending on how far up or
down you move the stalk. Lightly push the turn signal stalk up or down for a
three-flash sequence. For a continuous signal, push the stalk fully up or
down.

![Gear stalk with arrow, line, arrow, line on top and
bottom](../../images/GUID-99D6F47A-5BD6-4637-AF4C-B51C76A785CA-online-en-
US.png)

The turn signals stop operating when canceled by the steering wheel, by moving
the stalk in the opposite direction, or lightly pushing the stalk in the same
direction once more.

If Controls > Lights > Automatic Turn Signals is set to Auto Cancel, turn
signals cancel automatically when Model 3 detects completion of a maneuver
such as a merge, lane change, or a fork in the roadway. If Automatic Turn
Signals is set to Off, you must cancel the turn signal manually by using the
turn stalk.

![White arrow pointing left in green
circle](../../images/GUID-6F70A496-9BC3-4F8A-A81A-235DBB95A519-online-en-
US.png)

The corresponding turn signal indicator lights up on the touchscreen when a
turn signal is operating. Model 3 also emits a clicking sound.

![White arrow pointing right in green
circle](../../images/GUID-97CD7964-A446-4EA1-99C7-332EE61EC02F-online-en-
US.png)

The corresponding turn signal indicator lights up on the touchscreen when a
turn signal is operating. Model 3 also emits a clicking sound.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When actively using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control, engaging a turn signal can
cause Model 3 to accelerate in specific situations (see Overtake
Acceleration).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When actively using Autosteer, engaging a turn signal can cause Model 3 to
change lanes (see Auto Lane Change).

## Hazard Warning Flashers

To turn on the hazard warning flashers, press the button located above the
rear view mirror. All turn signals flash. Press the button again to turn off
the hazard warning flashers.

![Black button with white triangle above the rear view
mirror](../../images/GUID-DC7A793C-C78A-4392-917F-38D785851C24-online-en-
US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Hazard warning flashers operate even when Model 3 cannot detect a key.

## Condensation in Head or Tail Lights

Due to weather changes, humidity levels, or recent exposure to water (such as
a car wash), condensation may occasionally accumulate in your vehicle’s head
or tail lights. This is normal— as the weather gets warmer and humidity
decreases, condensation often disappears on its own. If you notice water
buildup within the exterior lenses, or if the condensation affects the
visibility of the exterior lights, contact Tesla Service.

  