

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Windows

**Parent topic:** Opening and Closing

## Opening and Closing

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

It is your responsibility to ensure windows are closed after locking the
vehicle.

Press down on a switch to lower the associated window. Window switches operate
at two levels:

  * To lower a window fully, press the switch all the way down and immediately release.
  * To lower a window partially, press the switch gently and release when the window is where you want it.

![Arrows pointing to the four window switches on the driver's
door](../../images/GUID-333A2EDA-144F-406B-9A54-993A2E97C1BC-online-en-US.png)

Similarly, pull a switch to raise the associated window:

  * To raise a window fully, pull the switch all the way up and immediately release.
  * To raise a window partially, pull the switch gently and release when the window is where you want it.

If a window is left open unintentionally, Model 3 can send a notification to
the mobile app (touch Controls > Locks > Car Left Open Notification, then
choose Doors & Windows).

You can also enable Close Windows on Lock by touching Controls > Locks > Close
Windows on Lock. When enabled, your vehicle automatically closes the windows
when Model 3 locks.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

See Cold Weather Best Practices for information on preparing windows for cold
weather.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

To avoid damage, windows automatically lower slightly when you open or close a
door. If you manually raise a window when the door is open, ensure it is
slightly lowered before closing the door.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Before closing a window, it is the driver’s responsibility to ensure that all
occupants, especially children, do not have any body parts extended through
the window’s opening. Failure to do so can cause serious injury.

## Locking Rear Windows

To prevent passengers from using the rear window switches, touch Controls >
Locks > Window Lock. To unlock the rear windows, touch Window Lock again.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

To ensure safety, it is recommended that you lock the rear window switches
whenever children are seated in the rear seats.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Never leave children unattended in Model 3.

## Calibrating Windows

In the unlikely event that a window behaves unexpectedly (touches the bright
molding, fails to open or close properly, goes down more than normal when the
door opens, etc.), you can calibrate it to potentially fix the issue.

To calibrate a window:

  1. Close the door with the affected window.
  2. Sit in the driver's seat and close the driver door.
  3. Using the window's switch on the driver's door, raise the affected window until it stalls.
  4. Using the window's switch on the driver's door, lower the affected window until it stalls.
  5. Repeat step 3 and raise the affected window until it stalls.

The window should now be calibrated. If the issue continues after attempting
the calibration procedure a couple times, try . If this does not work, contact
Tesla.

## UV Index Rating

The roof, windshields, and windows in Model 3 are excellent at protecting you
from UV (ultraviolet) rays. The glass components score less than 2 on the UV
Index scale. Review your region’s UV Index specifications for more
information. You are still responsible for taking the necessary precautions
for sun protection.

  