

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Keys

**Parent topic:** Opening and Closing

## Types of Keys

Model 3 supports the following types of keys:

  * Phone key \- You can set up your personal phone as a "phone key" that communicates with Model 3 using Bluetooth. A phone key supports automatic locking and unlocking.
  * Key card \- Tesla provides a key card that communicates with Model 3 using short range radio-frequency identification (RFID) signals. The key card is used to "authenticate" phone keys to work with Model 3 and to add or remove other keys. Unlike the phone key and key fobs, the key card does not support automatic locking and unlocking. In situations where your phone key has a dead battery, or is lost or stolen, use your key card to unlock, drive, and lock Model 3.
  * Key fob \- The key fob (if equipped) allows you to press buttons to open the front and rear trunks, and unlock, lock, and drive Model 3. The key fob also supports automatic locking and unlocking, if available in your region (see Walk-Away Door Lock) and can be used as a backup to your phone key. 

Model 3 supports a total of 19 keys, which can include phone keys, key cards,
and up to four key fobs.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Remember to bring a key with you when you drive. Although you can drive Model
3 away from its key, you will be unable to power it back on after it powers
off.

## Phone Key

Using your phone as a key is a convenient way to access your Model 3. As you
approach, your phone's Bluetooth signal is detected and the doors unlock when
you pull a door handle. Likewise, when you exit and walk away with the phone
key, doors automatically lock (provided the Walk-Away Door Lock feature is
turned on; see Walk-Away Door Lock).

Before you can use a phone to access Model 3, follow these steps to
authenticate it:

  1. Download the Tesla mobile app to your phone.
  2. Log into the Tesla mobile app using your Tesla account username and password.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

You must remain logged in to your Tesla account to use your phone to access
Model 3.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If multiple vehicles are linked to your Tesla account, you must ensure that
the vehicle you want the mobile app to access is currently selected on the
mobile app.

  3. Ensure:
    * Your phone's general Bluetooth settings are enabled.
    * Bluetooth is enabled within your phone's settings for the Tesla mobile app. For example, on your phone, navigate to Settings, choose the Tesla mobile app, and ensure the Bluetooth setting is turned on.
    * Access to your location is enabled. Open the Tesla mobile app in your phone's settings and select Location > Always. For the best experience, keep the mobile app running in the background.
    * Allow Mobile Access is enabled on the vehicle touchscreen (Controls > Safety  > Allow Mobile Access).

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Model 3 communicates with your phone using Bluetooth. Keep in mind that your
phone must have enough battery power to run Bluetooth and that many phones
disable Bluetooth when the battery is low.

  4. While inside or near the vehicle, open the Tesla mobile app and touch Set Up Phone Key on the main screen, or navigate to Security > Set Up Phone Key. Follow the prompts on the mobile app and vehicle touchscreen to set up your phone key.

To view a list of keys that can currently access Model 3, or to remove a phone
key, touch Controls > Locks (see Managing Keys).

Model 3 can connect to three phone keys simultaneously. Therefore, if more
than three phone keys are detected and you want to authenticate or pair a
different phone, move the other connected phone key(s) out of range or turn
off its Bluetooth setting.

Once a phone has been authenticated, it no longer requires an internet
connection to be used as a phone key for Model 3. However, to use the phone
hands-free, access your phone's contacts, play media from it, etc., you must
also pair it and connect it as a Bluetooth device (see Bluetooth).

Some smartphones with NFC capability can be used to lock/unlock your vehicle,
just like using a key card. Ensure the Tesla mobile app is correctly paired to
your vehicle and enable the NFC function on your phone. Once enabled, simply
hold the phone to the driver's side door pillar to lock or unlock the door.
Refer to your smartphone's instructions for specific information on how to do
this.

## Key Card

Tesla provides you with two Model 3 key cards, designed to fit in your wallet.

To use a key card to unlock or lock Model 3, position the card as shown and
tap it against the card reader located just below the Autopilot camera on the
driver's side door pillar. When Model 3 detects the key card, the exterior
lights flash, the mirrors unfold or fold (if Fold Mirrors is on), the horn
sounds (if Lock Confirmation Sound is on), and the doors unlock or lock.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

You may need to physically touch the center console or driver's side door
pillar with the key card, and you may need to hold it against the transmitter
for one or two seconds.

![Driver's side door
pillar](../../images/GUID-E24AD713-0712-4D55-805C-D1A57CB64CFA-online-en-
US.gif)

Once inside, power up Model 3 by pressing the brake pedal within two minutes
of scanning the key card (see Starting and Powering Off). If you wait longer
than two minutes, you must re-authenticate by placing the key card near the
card reader located behind the cup holders on the center console. When your
key card is detected, your two minute authentication period restarts.

![Key card on center console behind cup holders](../../images/GUID-
AE0BB36F-2483-4599-94E9-111602628AC8-online-en-US.gif)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If enabled, Walk-Away Door Lock (see Walk-Away Door Lock) operates only when
you walk away using a phone key or key fob. When you walk away carrying your
key card, Model 3 does not automatically unlock/lock.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Always carry your key card with you in your purse or wallet to use as a backup
in case your authenticated phone has a dead battery, or is lost or stolen.

## Key Fob

If you have purchased the key fob accessory, you can quickly familiarize
yourself with this key by thinking of it as a miniature version of Model 3,
with the Tesla badge representing the front. The key has three buttons that
feel like softer areas on the surface.

![Tesla key fob with 3 callouts](../../images/GUID-
EAD4B7F8-1C0F-4BB9-B5DF-5EEC27E9EFB7-online-en-US.gif)

  1. Front trunk - Double-click to unlatch the front trunk.
  2. Lock/Unlock All - Single-click to lock doors and trunks (all doors and trunks must be closed). Double-click to unlock doors and trunks.
  3. Rear trunk - Double-click to unlatch the rear trunk. Hold down for one to two seconds to open the charge port door.

Once inside, power up Model 3 by pressing the brake pedal within two minutes
of pressing the unlock button on the key fob (see Starting and Powering Off).
If you wait longer than two minutes, you must press the unlock button again,
or place the key fob near the card reader located behind the cup holders on
the center console. When your key fob is detected, the two minute
authentication period restarts.

When approaching or leaving Model 3 carrying the key fob, you do not need to
point the key fob at Model 3 as you press a button, but you must be within
operating range.

Radio equipment on a similar frequency can affect the key. If this happens,
move the key at least one foot (30 cm) away from other electronic devices
(phones, laptops, etc.).

In the event that the key fob's battery is dead, you can still use it to drive
the vehicle by scanning the key fob on the card reader located on the driver's
side door pillar (like the key card).

Instructions for changing the battery are provided in Replacing the Key Fob
Battery.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

You can use the same key fob with multiple Model 3 vehicles provided you
authenticate it (see Managing Keys). However, key fob works with only one
Model 3 at a time. Therefore, to use a key fob for a different Model 3, touch
its flat side against the card reader on the driver's side door pillar.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Model 3 supports up to four different key fobs.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Protect the key from impact, high temperatures, and damage from liquids. Avoid
contact with solvents, waxes, and abrasive cleaners.

### Passive Locking and Unlocking

Due to market region or vehicle configuration, passive locking and unlocking
may not be available for your vehicle.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Only key fobs with the TESLA logo printed on the flat side support the passive
locking and unlocking feature. Key fobs with the MODEL 3 logo printed on the
flat side cannot passively lock and unlock Model 3.

Locking and unlocking Model 3 with your key fob is conveniently hands-free.
Although you must be carrying a paired key fob, there is no need to use it.
Model 3 has sensors around the vehicle that can recognize the presence of a
key fob within a range of approximately six feet (two meters). Therefore, you
can keep your key fob in your pocket or purse and simply pull on the door
handle to unlock. When carrying your key fob with you, you can also open the
trunk without having to use the key by pressing the rear trunk's exterior door
handle. If Walk-Away Door Lock is enabled, Model 3 automatically locks when
you exit and the key fob is no longer in range (see Walk-Away Door Lock).
Passive locking and unlocking is automatically enabled when you pair your key
fob to Model 3.

Although you can use the same key fob with multiple vehicles, it can only be
paired to one vehicle at a time. To activate a paired key fob to a different
vehicle, touch the flat side onto the driver's side door pillar and click any
button on the key fob to confirm.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

For increased security, passive locking and unlocking disables after being
stationary for five minutes while within vehicle range when the vehicle is not
in use (for example, you are standing outside your vehicle). In this
situation, you must shake or press a button on the key fob to re-enable
passive locking and unlocking.

### Replacing the Key Fob Battery

Under normal use, the accessory key fob has a battery that lasts for up to one
year, depending on key fob version and selected vehicle settings. When the
battery is low, a message displays on the touchscreen.

To replace the key fob battery:

![Tesla key
fob](../../images/GUID-D98DF64C-B562-46B5-B824-10C35D9FA600-online-en-US.gif)

  1. With the key fob placed button side down on a soft surface, release the bottom cover, using a small flat-bladed tool.
  2. Remove the battery by lifting it away from the retaining clips.
  3. While avoiding touching the battery's flat surfaces, insert the new battery (type CR2032 ) with the ‘+’ side facing up. 

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Wipe the battery clean before fitting and avoid touching the battery's flat
surfaces. Finger marks on the flat surfaces of the battery can reduce battery
life.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

CR2032 batteries can be purchased from any retailer that sells batteries.

  4. Holding the bottom cover at an angle, align the tabs on the cover with the corresponding slots on the key fob, then press the cover firmly onto the key fob until it snaps into place.
  5. Test that the key fob works by unlocking and locking Model 3.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Key fob batteries contain a chemical burn hazard and should not be ingested.
The key fob contains a coin cell battery. If the coin cell battery is
swallowed, it can cause severe internal burns within two hours and can lead to
death. Keep new and used batteries away from children. If the battery
compartment does not close securely, stop using the product and keep it away
from children. If you think batteries might have been swallowed or placed
inside any part of the body, seek immediate medical attention.

## Managing Keys

To display a list of all keys that can access your Model 3, touch Controls >
Locks. An icon displays next to each key to indicate whether the key is a
phone key, key card, or key fob. Use this list to manage keys that have access
to your Model 3. To add or delete keys, see Adding and Removing Keys.

Model 3 supports up to 19 keys. When you reach this limit, you must delete a
key before adding a new one.

In the event you lose both keys cards, schedule a service appointment through
the mobile app to replace and pair them.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

You can use the same key for more than one Model 3. This prevents you from
having to deal with multiple keys when you switch vehicles. If you customize
the name of an authenticated key card or key fob on one Model 3 (by touching
the pencil icon), any other Model 3 to which the key card or key fob is
authenticated also displays the changed name.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If you are leasing your vehicle, contact your leasing company to add or remove
keys.

### Adding and Removing Keys

**To add a new key:**

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

When adding a key fob, ensure it is at room temperature. Pairing a key fob
that is very cold can be unsuccessful.

  1. On the touchscreen, touch Controls > Locks > Keys > Add Key.
  2. Scan your new key card or key fob on the card reader located behind the cup holders on the top of the center console. After the new key card or key fob is recognized, remove it from the card reader.![Key card scanned on card reader](../../images/GUID-AE0BB36F-2483-4599-94E9-111602628AC8-online-en-US.gif)
  3. Scan a key card or key fob that has already been paired to the vehicle to confirm new key pairing.
  4. When complete, the key list includes the new key. Touch the associated pencil icon to customize the name of the key.

**Removing a key:**

When you no longer want a key to access Model 3 (for example, you lost your
phone or key card, etc.), follow these steps to remove it.

  1. On the touchscreen, touch Controls > Locks.
  2. In the key list, find the key that you would like to delete and touch its associated trash icon.
  3. When prompted, scan an authenticated key on the card reader to confirm the deletion. When complete, the key list no longer includes the deleted key.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Model 3 requires at least one authenticated key card or key fob at all times.
If only one key card remains on the key list, you cannot delete it.

  