

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Wipers and Washers

**Parent topic:** Driving

## Wipers

There are several ways to access wiper settings:

  * Press the button on the end of the turn signal stalk. 
  * Touch Controls > Wipers.
  * Add wipers to the bottom bar. See Customizing My Apps.

To adjust the wiper settings, press the left scroll wheel on the steering
wheel left or right, use the touchscreen or use voice commands (see Voice
Commands).

The button at the end of turn signal stalk has two levels. Press partially for
a single wipe without any washer fluid. Press fully for both wipe and wash.

I \- Intermittent, slow

II \- Intermittent, fast

III \- Continuous, slow

IIII \- Continuous, fast

Auto:  Model 3 detects whether or not it is raining. When wipers are set to
Auto and liquid is detected on the windshield, Model 3 determines the optimal
frequency at which they should wipe. If Model 3 does not detect liquid on the
windshield, the wipers do not wipe.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Autopilot requires wipers to be set to Auto. This setting is automatic and you
cannot change it.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The Auto setting is currently in BETA. If uncertain about using the Auto
setting while in the BETA phase, Tesla recommends operating the wipers
manually, as necessary.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Ensure the wipers are off before washing Model 3 to avoid the risk of damaging
the wipers.

Periodically check and clean the edge of the wiper blades. If a blade is
damaged, replace it immediately. For details on checking and replacing wiper
blades, see Windshield Wiper Blades, Jets and Fluid.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

To avoid damaging the hood, ensure that the hood is fully closed before using
the windshield wipers.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

In harsh climates, ensure that the wiper blades are not frozen or adhered to
the windshield. Remove ice from the windshield before using the wipers. Ice
has sharp edges that can damage the rubber on the blades.

## Windshield Washers

Press the button on the end of the turn signal stalk to spray washer fluid
onto the windshield. This button has two levels. Press partially for a single
wipe without any washer fluid. Press fully for both wipe and wash. When
washing the windshield, the wipers turn on. While spraying the windshield, the
wipers turn on. After releasing the button, the wipers perform two additional
wipes then, depending on vehicle and environmental conditions, a third wipe a
few seconds later.

![Turn signal with arrow pointing to
tip](../../images/GUID-7F31F314-174E-4F06-AE7E-B06C08079A15-online-en-US.png)

Periodically top up washer fluid (see Topping Up Windshield Washer Fluid).

  