

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Front Trunk

**Parent topic:** Storage Areas

## Opening

To open the front trunk, ensure Model 3 is in Park, and then do one of the
following before pulling the hood open:

  * Touch the associated Open icon on the touchscreen.
  * Double-click the front trunk button on the key fob.
  * Touch the front trunk button in the mobile app.

![Arrow pointing up from vehicle front
hood](../../images/GUID-4271984A-D588-4D00-B76A-64E37F9A7C96-online-en-US.png)

![Vehicle icon with door open](../../images/GUID-
DE43C5C5-501D-4A50-AC71-4061B1ACC599-online-en-US.png)

When a door or trunk is open, the touchscreen displays the Door Open indicator
light. The image of your Model 3 on the touchscreen also displays the open
front trunk.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Before opening or closing the hood, it is important to check that the area
around the hood is free of obstacles (people and objects). Failure to do so
may result in damage or serious injury.

## Closing

The Model 3 hood is not heavy enough to latch under its own weight and
applying pressure on the front edge or center of the hood can cause damage.

To properly close the hood:

  1. Lower the hood until the striker touches the latches.
  2. Place both hands on the front of the hood in the areas shown (in green), then press down firmly to engage the latches.
  3. Carefully try to lift the front edge of the hood to ensure that it is fully closed.

![Arrows pointing to two green boxes on either side of the center front edge
of the front hood. A red box on the center front edge of the
hood.](../../images/GUID-25987FCB-8DB9-4EFF-BE2D-9C6A40FA9138-online-en-
US.png)

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

To prevent damage:

  * Apply pressure only to the green areas shown. Applying pressure to the red areas can cause damage.
  * Do not close the hood with one hand. Doing so applies concentrated force in one area and can result in a dent or crease.
  * Do not apply pressure to the front edge of the hood. Doing so can crease the edge.
  * Do not slam or drop the hood.
  * To avoid scratches, don't have anything in your hands (keys). Jewelry can also cause scratches. 

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Before driving, you must ensure that the hood is securely latched in the fully
closed position by carefully trying to lift the front edge of the hood upward
and confirming there is no movement. It is the driver's responsibility to
ensure that the front trunk is properly closed before driving.

If the front trunk is left open when you attempt to shift out of Park, a
notification requiring you to confirm your intent to drive appears on the
touchscreen. If you choose to keep the front trunk open while driving, your
vehicle speed is limited.

The front trunk locks when:

  * You lock Model 3 using the touchscreen, key or mobile app.
  * You leave Model 3 carrying your key (if Walk-Away Door Lock is turned on).
  * Valet mode is active (see Valet Mode).

## Front Trunk Load Limit

Distribute the weight of cargo as evenly as possible between the front and
rear trunks.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Never load more than 110 lbs (50 kg) in the front trunk. Doing so can cause
damage.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When loading cargo, always consider the vehicle's Gross Vehicle Weight Rating
(GVWR) (see Vehicle Loading). The GVWR is the maximum allowable total mass of
the vehicle including all passengers, fluids, and cargo.

## Interior Emergency Release

An illuminated interior release button inside the front trunk allows a person
locked inside to get out.

![A button inside the front trunk with an image of a car with its trunk
open](../../images/GUID-F0CE4C4C-4743-4447-AFCA-820E44CCCA8B-online-en-US.png)

Press the interior release button to open the front trunk, then push up on the
hood.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The interior release button glows following a brief exposure to ambient light.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

People should never climb inside the front trunk. Never shut the front trunk
when a person is inside.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Care should be taken to ensure that objects inside the front trunk do not bump
against the release button, causing the hood to accidentally open.

## Opening Hood with No Power

In the unlikely event that Model 3 has no low voltage power, you will be
unable to open the front trunk using the touchscreen , key fob, or mobile app.
To open the front trunk in this situation:

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The following steps do not open the front trunk if Model 3 is locked and has
low voltage power.

![closeup of front tow eye
cover](../../images/GUID-A2630416-4409-45C8-81FE-1D77A957422C-online-en-
US.gif)

  1. Locate an external low voltage power supply (such as a portable jump starter).
  2. Release the tow eye cover by pressing firmly on the top right perimeter of the cover until it pivots inward, then gently pulling the raised section toward you. 

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Depending on production date, either the positive or negative terminal may be
attached to the tow eye cover.

  3. Pull the two wires out of the tow eye opening to expose both terminals.
  4. Connect the low voltage power supply's red positive (+) cable to the red positive (+) terminal.
  5. Connect the low voltage power supply's black negative (-) cable to the black negative (-) terminal.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Applying external low voltage power to these terminals only releases the hood
latches. You cannot charge the low voltage battery using these terminals.

  6. Turn on the external power supply (refer to the manufacturer’s instructions). The hood latches are immediately released and you can now open the hood to access the front trunk area.
  7. Disconnect both cables, beginning with the black negative (-) cable.
  8. If pulling the vehicle onto a flatbed truck, do not replace the tow eye cover yet. If necessary, install the tow eye cover by inserting the wires into the tow eye opening and aligning the tow eye cover into position and snapping it into place.

  