

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Rear Trunk

**Parent topic:** Storage Areas

## Opening

To open the rear trunk, ensure Model 3 is in Park, then do one of the
following:

  * Touch the associated Open button on the touchscreen.
  * Double-click the rear trunk button on the key fob.
  * Touch the rear trunk button on the mobile app.
  * Press the switch located under the rear trunk's exterior handle (a valid key must be detected).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Before opening the rear trunk in an enclosed area (such as a garage), ensure
the opening height of the rear trunk is properly adjusted to avoid low-hanging
ceilings or objects (see Adjusting Opening Height of Powered Trunk).

Model 3 must be unlocked or detect a key before you can use the switch to open
the rear trunk.

![Rear of vehicle with zoombox showing detail of the switch on the rear trunk
exterior
handle](../../images/GUID-67B0B73A-45E0-4CEC-B900-94B18E77B8C6-online-en-
US.png)

![Red icon of vehicle with doors open](../../images/GUID-
DE43C5C5-501D-4A50-AC71-4061B1ACC599-online-en-US.png)

When a door or trunk is open, the touchscreen displays the Door Open indicator
light. The image of your Model 3 on the touchscreen also displays the open
trunk.

You can stop a powered trunk (if equipped) while it is moving by single-
clicking the rear trunk button on the key fob accessory. Then, when you
double-click the rear trunk button, it moves again, but in the opposite
direction (provided it was not almost entirely open or closed when you stopped
it). For example, if you single-click to stop the powered trunk while it is
opening, when you double-click, it closes.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

In emergency situations, you can override the open or close command for the
powered trunk (if equipped) by grabbing hold and stopping it.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Before opening or closing the powered trunk (if equipped), it is important to
check that the surrounding area is free of obstacles (people and objects). You
must proactively monitor the trunk to ensure that it does not come into
contact with a person or object. Failure to do so may result in damage or
serious injury.

To open the rear trunk from inside the vehicle in the unlikely situation that
Model 3 has no power, see Interior Emergency Trunk Release.

## Adjusting Opening Height of Powered Trunk

You can adjust the opening height of the powered trunk (if equipped) to make
it easier to reach or to avoid low-hanging ceilings or objects (for example, a
garage door or light):

  1. Open the trunk, then manually lower or raise it to the desired opening height.
  2. Press and hold the button on the underside of the trunk for three seconds until you hear a confirmation chime.
  3. Confirm that you have set it to the desired height by closing the powered trunk, then reopening it.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Depending on configuration (such as wheel selection), your vehicle's rear
trunk can open up to approximately 6.5 feet (2 meters). Adjust the rear trunk
height to prevent it from coming into contact with low ceilings or other
objects.

## Closing

To close the powered trunk (if equipped), do one of the following:

  * Touch the associated Close button on the touchscreen.
  * Press the switch located by the rear trunk's exterior handle.
  * Double-click the rear trunk button on the key fob.

If the powered trunk senses an obstruction when closing, it stops moving and
sounds two chimes. Remove the obstruction and try closing it again.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Before driving, ensure that the trunk is securely latched in the fully-closed
position by lifting up on the bottom edge and confirming there is no movement.

## Accessing the Cargo Area

To access the cargo area inside the rear trunk, pull up the strap at the rear
of the cargo cover. You can then fold the cargo cover forward or remove it
from Model 3.

Secure all cargo before moving Model 3, and place heavy cargo in the lower
trunk compartment.

![Rear trunk with arrow pointing upwards from cargo cover
strap](../../images/GUID-A68AF15F-157D-4536-B2B3-4C1A4913E915-online-en-
US.png)

## Rear Trunk Load Limits

Distribute the weight of cargo as evenly as possible between the front and
rear trunks.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Never load more than 88 lbs (40 kg) in the lower tub compartment of the rear
trunk or more than 287 lbs (130 kg) on the upper floor. Doing so can cause
damage.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When loading cargo, always consider the vehicle's Gross Vehicle Weight Rating
(GVWR) (see Vehicle Loading). The GVWR is the maximum allowable total mass of
the vehicle including all passengers, fluids, and cargo.

## Interior Emergency Trunk Release

An illuminated mechanical release located inside the rear trunk allows you to
open the rear trunk from the inside if Model 3 has no electrical power. This
mechanical release also allows a person locked inside to get out.

![Button with icon of car with trunk open and a blue arrow pointing
left](../../images/GUID-372BC0ED-1020-44A9-87C0-2B9101711196-online-en-US.png)

  1. Firmly press and hold the illuminated button in the direction of the arrow to release the latch.
  2. While pressing the button, push the rear trunk open.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The button glows for several hours after a brief exposure to ambient light.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not allow children to play inside the trunk or become locked inside. An
unrestrained child could suffer serious injury or death in a crash. A child
could suffer heat exhaustion if trapped in the vehicle, especially without
climate control on.

  