

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Certification Conformity

**Parent topic:** Consumer Information

## FCC and ISED Certification

Component | Manufacturer | Model | Operating Frequency (MHz) | FCC ID | IC ID  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
B-Pillar Endpoint

| Tesla |

1089773E

|

13.56

2400-2483.5

|

2AEIM-1089773E

|

20098-1089773E  
  
Center Console | Tesla | 1089774 |

13.56

2400-2483.5

|

2AEIM-1089774

| 20098-1089774  
  
Rear Endpoint

| Tesla |

1089775

| 2400-2483.5 |

2AEIM-1089775

|

20098-1089775  
  
Key fob | Tesla | 1133148 | 2400-2483.5 | 2AEIM-1133148 | 20098-1133148  
TPMS |

Tesla

|

1472547G

|

2400-2483.5

|

2AEIM-1472547G

|

20098-1472547G  
  
Radar (if equipped) | Continental | ARS 4-B | 76000-77000 | OAYARS4B |
4135A-ARS4B  
Homelink (if equipped) | Gentex | ADHL5C | 286-440MHz | NZLADHL5C |
4112A-ADHL5C  
Car PC

Manufactured approx. 2017-2019

| Tesla |

1098058

|  |

YZP-RBHP-B216C

RI7LE940B6NA

|

RBHP-B216C

5131A-LE940B6NA  
  
Car PC

Manufactured approx. 2019-2022

| Tesla |

1506277

|  |

YZP-RBHP-B216C

RI7LE940B6NA

|

RBHP-B216C

5131A-LE940B6NA  
  
Car PC Manufactured approx. January–July 2022 | Tesla | 1960100 |  |
XMR2020AG525RGL YZP-ATC5CPC001 | 10224A-2020AG525R 7414C-ATC5CPC001  
Car PC

Manufactured approx. August 2022+

| Tesla | 1960100 |  |  XMR2020AG525RGL XMR202201AF51Y | 10224A-2020AG525R
10224A-202201AF51Y  
Wireless Charger | Tesla |

WC3

|

127.72KHz

|

2AEIM-WC3

|

20098-WC3  
  
The devices listed above comply with Part 15 of the FCC rules and Industry
Canada's license-exempt RSS Standard(s) and EU Directive 2014/53/EU.

Operation is subject to the following two conditions:

  1. This device may not cause harmful interference; and
  2. This device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation.

Changes or modifications not expressly approved by Tesla could void your
authority to operate the equipment.

## Radio Frequency Information

This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class
B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are
designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a
residential installation. This equipment generates, uses and can radiate radio
frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the
instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However,
there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular
installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or
television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and
on, try to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures:

  * Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
  * Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
  * Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected.
  * Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician to help.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

This equipment and its antennas must not be co-located or operated with
another antenna or transmitter.

## Canada

CAN ICES-3 (B)/NMB-3(B)

Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d'Industrie Canada applicables aux
appareils radioexempts de licence. L'exploitation est autorisée aux deux
conditions suivantes : (1) l'appareilne doit pas produire de brouillage, et
(2) l'utilisateur de l'appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique
subi, même si le brouillage est susceptible d'en compromettre
lefonctionnement.

Cet équipement est conforme aux limites d’exposition aux rayonnements ISED
établies pour unenvironnement non contrôlé.

### Déclaration d'exposition aux radiations

Le produit est conforme à l'exposition RF ISED pour le transfert de puissance
sans fil de consommateurs de faible puissance. La limite d'exposition RF fixée
pour un environnement non contrôlé est sans danger pour le fonctionnement
prévu tel que décrit dans ce manuel. L'exposition RF supplémentaire que la
conformité a été démontrée à 20cm et plus de séparation du corps de
l'utilisateur ou de mettre l'appareil à la puissance de sortie inférieure si
une telle fonction est disponible.

## Mexico

IFT-008-SCFI-2015 / NOM-208-SCFI-2016

TPMS, model: 1472547G, IFT#: RCPTE1421-4384

La operación de este equipo está sujeta a las siguientes dos condiciones:

  1. Es posible que este equipo o dispositivo no cause interferencia perjudicial.
  2. Este equipo debe aceptar cualquier interferencia, incluyendo la que pueda causar su operación no deseada. 

  