

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Doors

**Parent topic:** Opening and Closing

## Using Exterior Door Handles

Use your thumb to push the wide part of the door handle. The handle pivots
toward you, and you can open the door by pulling the handle or pulling the
edge of the door.

![an arrow pointing at the door
handle](../../images/GUID-D6AC9A4B-0BCE-4006-A11F-E9504A9233C6-online-en-
US.gif)

The handle retracts automatically.

![Red icon of vehicle with doors open](../../images/GUID-
DE43C5C5-501D-4A50-AC71-4061B1ACC599-online-en-US.png)

When a door or trunk is open, the touchscreen displays the Door Open indicator
light.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

See Cold Weather Best Practices to ensure door handles function properly in
cold weather.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

While using the door handle, take care to avoid allowing fingers, jewelry,
acrylic nails, etc. from being pinched by the door or door handle mechanism.
Failure to do so may result in damage or injury.

## Opening Doors from the Interior

Model 3 doors are electrically powered. To open a door while sitting inside,
press the button located at the top of the interior door handle and push the
door open.

![an arrow pointing to the open door
button](../../images/GUID-40D33F4F-4B45-46DA-9A26-7301FAC4D75A-online-en-
US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

To prevent children from opening the rear doors, turn on child locks (see
Child Locks).

You can also use the touchscreen popup to open and close doors when inside
Model 3 while the vehicle is in Park.

To open a front door in the unlikely situation when Model 3 has no power, pull
up the manual door release located in front of the window switches.

![an arrow motioning to pull up on the door release
switch](../../images/GUID-3E788A87-9F37-487E-ABB0-82FD910F6B90-online-en-
US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Only the front doors are equipped with a manual door release.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Manual door releases are designed to be used only in situations when Model 3
has no power. When Model 3 has power, use the button located at the top of the
interior door handle.

## Interior Locking and Unlocking

While sitting inside Model 3, you can lock and unlock all doors and trunks by
touching the lock icon on the touchscreen.

![an unlocked
lock](../../images/GUID-31111655-01D6-4B82-9420-0D3B6E7C4257-online-en-US.png)

The icon changes to indicate whether doors are locked or unlocked.

You can also unlock the doors by pressing the Park button on the end of the
drive stalk a second time. Pressing this button once engages Park and pressing
it again unlocks the doors.

## Walk-Away Door Lock

Doors and trunks can automatically lock when you walk away carrying your phone
key or paired key fob (if ordered after approximately October 1, 2019). To
turn this feature on or off, touch Controls > Locks > Walk-Away Door Lock.

When the doors lock, the exterior lights flash once and the mirrors fold (if
Fold Mirrors is on). To also hear a confirmation sound when Model 3 locks,
touch Controls > Locks > Lock Confirmation Sound.

Model 3 does not automatically lock if:

  * You check the Exclude Home checkbox and Model 3 is parked at the location you have designated as Home. For details on how to designate a location as Home, see Home, Work, and Favorite Destinations.
  * A phone key or paired key fob is detected inside Model 3.
  * A door or trunk is not fully closed.
  * The phone key's Bluetooth setting is turned off.
  * If Model 3 detects an authenticated key for several minutes after you exit the vehicle and close all doors, Walk-Away Lock disables and doors do not lock when you walk away. In this case, you must manually lock your vehicle until after your next drive.
  * The driver does not use the driver door to get out of the vehicle.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

It is ultimately your responsibility to ensure your vehicle is locked, even
when Walk-Away Door Lock is enabled.

## Drive Away Locking

Model 3 automatically locks all doors (including the trunks) when your driving
speed exceeds 5 mph (8 km/h)8 km/h.

## Driver Door Unlock Mode

Enabling Controls > Locks > Driver Door Unlock Mode only unlocks the driver
door when you first unlock Model 3. The driver door unlocks only if a key is
present on the driver side of the vehicle and not the passenger side. To
unlock the remaining doors, long press the button located at the top of the
interior driver door handle, use the touchscreen, mobile app or press the key
fob a second time.

## Car Left Open Notifications

To receive a mobile notification if a door, trunk and/or window is left open
or if Model 3 is left unlocked unexpectedly, touch Controls > Locks > Car Left
Open Notifications.

## Child Locks

Model 3 has child locks on the rear doors to prevent them from being opened
using the interior release buttons. On the touchscreen, touch Controls > Locks
> Child Lock. You can choose Both to engage the child lock on both rear doors,
or you can choose Left or Right to engage it on just a specific door.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

It is recommended that you turn on child locks when children are seated in the
rear seats.

## Unlock on Park

When you stop Model 3 and engage Park, you can choose to unlock all doors. To
turn this feature on or off, touch Controls > Locks > Unlock on Park.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If set to OFF, you can unlock all doors by pressing the Park button a second
time after engaging Park.

  