

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Car Status

**Parent topic:** Overview

## Overview

The touchscreen displays the status of Model 3 at all times. What you see
depends on whether the vehicle is:

  * Parked (shown below).
  * Driving (see Driving Status).
  * Charging (see Charging Status).

When Model 3 is parked, the status area shows the drive mode, estimated range,
and an overhead view of the car with buttons you can touch to open the trunks
and charge port door. When you press the brake, Model 3 powers up and
indicator lights flash briefly. Unless an indicator light applies to the
current situation (for example, a seat belt is not fastened), it should turn
off. If an indicator light fails to turn on or off, contact Tesla.

The bottom of the car status display also shows shortcut "cards" for quick
access to Media, tire pressure data, and trip information. Swipe the cards to
the left or right to change shortcuts.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

_The following image is provided for demonstration purposes only. Depending on
vehicle options, software version, and market region, the information
displayed may be slightly different._

![Vehicle touchscreen with
icons](../../images/GUID-06AA75FA-F9F5-426C-9E99-344601FBE0D1-online-en-
US.png)

### Cards

The bottom of the car status display also shows shortcut "cards" for quick
access to Media, tire pressure data, trip information, and more. Swipe the
cards to the left or right to customize your cards shortcuts.

### Indicator Lights

The following indicator lights illuminate to advise you or alert you of a
specific status or condition.

![Red exclamation point within a red circle with the word BRAKE
underneath](../../images/GUID-187D5A5D-BA45-40F5-8F96-F387B478DB39-online-en-
US.png)

A brake system fault is detected or the brake fluid level is low. See Braking
and Stopping. Contact Tesla immediately.

![Amber exclamation point within an amber circle with the word BRAKE
underneath](../../images/GUID-59DAD599-F4E3-4F98-9D86-62F2EFDD260B-online-en-
US.png)

A brake booster fault has been detected. See Braking and Stopping.

![The word ABS within an amber circle](../../images/GUID-
AD2775CF-98F7-44F6-967F-407DD28DD14A-online-en-US.png)

An ABS (Anti-lock Braking System) fault is detected. See Braking and Stopping.
Contact Tesla immediately.

![An amber P within an amber
circle](../../images/GUID-74B64B91-9234-4806-84DB-C301E8852D4B-online-en-
US.png)

A parking brake fault is detected. Contact Tesla. See Parking Brake.

![A read P within a red circle with the word PARK
underneath](../../images/GUID-FB08C309-8744-480B-82EC-380662C9FF3E-online-en-
US.png)

The parking brake is manually applied. See Parking Brake.

![An amber exclamation within a tire circle](../../images/GUID-
DDB8E8F2-901F-44C6-8D26-F26C84EAFB8B-online-en-US.png)

Tire pressure warning. The pressure of a tire is out of range. If a fault with
the Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) is detected, the indicator flashes.
For a TPMS fault, contact Tesla. See Tire Care and Maintenance.

![Red icon of a passenger with a seat
belt](../../images/GUID-B993559B-1D17-4488-AD32-0FE835C68CC3-online-en-US.png)

A seat belt for an occupied seat is not fastened. See Seat Belts.

![Red icon of a passenger with a seat belt and an
airbag](../../images/GUID-1BD81775-CE41-478E-9C16-69965B745DB5-online-en-
US.png)

Airbag safety. If this indicator does not flash on briefly when Model 3
prepares to drive, or if it remains on, contact Tesla immediately. See Airbag
Warning Indicator.

![Green oval shape with a squiggly liine going through beams of
light](../../images/GUID-25624D50-A986-44A8-A476-A51F0AC998E5-online-en-
US.png)

Front fog lights are on, if equipped. See Lights.

![Two green ovals with three lines each on the outside representing
lights](../../images/GUID-040331AC-9743-47DA-8452-6AB8F0655213-online-en-
US.png)

Parking lights are on (side marker lights, tail lights, and license plate
lights) . See Lights.

![A green headlight icon with beams of light angling
down](../../images/GUID-4BEE850B-FCE9-4255-B21C-282460C6EA9F-online-en-US.png)

Low beam headlights are on.

![A blue headlight icon with beams of horizontal
light](../../images/GUID-5F71E3D3-E3F5-4BBB-BD11-FBFEB8648037-online-en-
US.png)

High beam headlights are on and Auto High Beam is disabled or currently
unavailable.

![A blue headlight with an A with horizontal beams of
light](../../images/GUID-B75EA73B-CC60-421C-9DE7-1563FBA46C97-online-en-
US.png)

Auto High Beam is enabled and high beams are on. Model 3 is ready to turn off
the high beams if light is detected. See High Beam Headlights.

![A grey headlight with an A with horizontal beams of
light](../../images/GUID-40AEF993-563B-4C2D-9F46-A924E3D27387-online-en-
US.png)

Auto High Beam is enabled but high beams are not on because light is detected
in front of Model 3. When light is no longer detected, high beams
automatically turn back on. See High Beam Headlights.

![Amber icon of rear view of vehicle with squiggly tire
marks](../../images/GUID-9E69DB62-FA77-41DA-9C13-0260F760690C-online-en-
US.png)

This indicator flashes amber when the electronic stability control systems are
actively minimizing wheel spin by controlling brake pressure and motor power.
See Traction Control. If this indicator remains on, a fault is detected and
you should immediately contact Tesla.

![Amber letters TC within a tire
symbol](../../images/GUID-4CCA4373-F35B-419B-AE05-117D7EC1693C-online-en-
US.png)

Electronic stability control systems are no longer minimizing wheel spin. On a
Rear Wheel Drive vehicle, the traction control system has been turned off, or
on an All-Wheel Drive vehicle, Slip Start has been enabled. See Traction
Control.

![Grey H within a
circle](../../images/GUID-8EDE6D37-CB58-4055-B75E-C89C7F9728C4-online-en-
US.png)

Vehicle Hold is actively applying the brakes. See Vehicle Hold.

![Red icon of vehicle with doors open](../../images/GUID-
DE43C5C5-501D-4A50-AC71-4061B1ACC599-online-en-US.png)

A door or trunk is open. See Doors, Rear Trunk, or Front Trunk.

![Blue snowflake
icon](../../images/GUID-E3B31820-FEE3-4C42-A9AD-48AE7E6ED967-online-en-US.png)

A blue snowflake appears when some of the energy stored in the Battery may not
be available due to cold weather conditions. During these cold weather
conditions, charging rates may also be limited. If Model 3 is plugged in, you
can heat your Battery by turning on climate control with the mobile app. The
snowflake disappears when the Battery is sufficiently warm.

![green icon with a lightning bolt in the
center](../../images/GUID-82572DC7-36C7-436E-BC48-F897BB6A2F90-online-en-
US.png)

Appears when regenerative braking is limited. See Regenerative Braking for
more information.

![Amber turtle icon within a
circle](../../images/GUID-D6081BC9-D807-4864-B1B5-00852EADAA02-online-en-
US.png)

Vehicle power is currently being limited because the energy remaining in the
Battery is low, the vehicle's systems are being heated or cooled, or an error
is detected by the drive inverter .

See Popup Messages and Vehicle Alerts for more information about alert popups
on your vehicle's touchscreen.

## Driving Status

When Model 3 is driving (or ready to drive), the touchscreen shows your
current driving status and a real-time visualization of the road as detected
by the Autopilot components (see About Autopilot). The visualization
automatically zooms in and out to better utilize touchscreen space and inform
you when a vehicle is detected in your blind spot.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

_The following illustration is provided for demonstration purposes only.
Depending on vehicle options, software version, and market region, the
information displayed may be slightly different._

![Vehicle cluster and
callouts](../../images/GUID-670D43C5-4D62-42F0-9D1D-4AEAF450A338-online-en-
US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

To display more details about the roadway and its surroundings, such as road
markings, stop lights, objects (such as trash cans and poles), etc., touch
Controls > Autopilot > Full Self-Driving Visualization Preview (if equipped).

  1. The power meter displays real-time power usage. During acceleration, the bar fills to the right with a gray color (or white if the display is dark) to represent power being used. During deceleration (when Model 3 is moving and you release your foot from the accelerator pedal), the bar fills to the left with a green color to represent power being fed back to the Battery by regenerative braking (see Regenerative Braking).
  2. When Autosteer is available but you haven't activated it, the icon is gray. When Autosteer is actively steering Model 3, the icon is blue (see Autosteer).
  3. Currently selected drive mode: Park, Reverse, Neutral, or Drive.
  4. Driving speed.
  5. Other cars detected on the road (as applicable).
  6. Your Model 3. Colored lines radiate from the image of your Model 3 as objects are detected (other motorists, guard rails, etc.). The location of the lines correspond to the location of the detected object. The color of the lines (white, yellow, orange, or red) represents the object's proximity to Model 3, with white being the farthest and red being very close and requiring your immediate attention. See Lane Assist.
  7. When Autosteer is active and detecting the driving lane, the lane is highlighted in blue (see Autosteer).

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If Navigate on Autopilot is active, the driving lane displays as a single blue
line in front of Model 3 (see Navigate on Autopilot).

  8. The speed limit that is currently being detected by Speed Assist (see Speed Assist).

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The icon associated with the detected speed limit reflects the style of speed
limit signs used in your market region.

  9. Total estimated driving distance (or energy) available. Touch the displayed value to change how available energy is displayed. You can toggle between driving distance and percentage of battery energy remaining. You can also change how energy is displayed by touching Controls > Display > Energy Display. 

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

When anticipating when you need to charge, use range estimates as a general
guideline only.

  10. The set cruising speed. When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control is available but you haven't set a cruising speed, the number is gray (see Traffic-Aware Cruise Control).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Pay attention to important alert messages that display at the bottom of the
car status area of the touchscreen. Ignoring these messages can result in
serious injury or death.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Although the touchscreen shows surrounding traffic, some vehicles may not be
displayed. Never rely on the touchscreen to determine if a vehicle is present
(for example, in your blind spot). Always use your mirrors and perform
shoulder checks.

  