

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Interior Electronics

In addition to storage compartments and cup holders (see Interior Storage),
the Model 3 interior supports various electronics such as an RFID transmitter
that reads key fobs and key cards (see Keys), USB ports, a wireless phone
charger, and a 12V power socket.

**Parent topic:** Overview

## USB Ports

Model 3 has two USB ports located in the front compartment of the center
console. These ports can be used to:

  * Connect and charge USB devices.
  * Play audio files stored on a phone or USB device (see Playing Media from Devices).
  * For saving Sentry Mode and Dashcam video footage, use the USB port located in the glove box. Doing so increases security and minimizes power consumption.

The USB ports can output power up to approximately 15W (which may vary
depending on vehicle manufacture date).

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

For some vehicles manufactured after approximately November 1, 2021, the
center console USB ports may only support charging devices. Use the USB port
inside the glove box for all other functions.

Both ports are USB-C compatible.

See USB Drive Requirements for Recording Videos for information about
formatting USB flash drives.

Open the front compartment of the center console. The front USB ports are
located on the rear wall of the compartment.

![Zoombox showing the location of the USB ports in the center
console.](../../images/GUID-D000ECF9-69F0-4BF3-901A-5D6A98BE35C6-online-en-
US.png)

Depending on date of manufacture, some vehicles include a USB port located
inside the glovebox. This USB-A port is equipped with a pre-formatted flash
drive, ready to save videos when using features such as Sentry Mode and
Dashcam. Although not its primary purpose, this port can also communicate with
the vehicle and can be used to charge a USB-connected device.

![Image showing the location of the USB port in the
glovebox.](../../images/GUID-BB22BA2B-A970-40D0-B177-AA0651D31D6C-online-en-
US.png)

Two additional USB ports are located in the rear of the center console (on
vehicles manufactured since approximately June 2020, these ports are USB-C).
These ports charge USB-connected devices but do not communicate with the
vehicle.

![Zoombox showing the location of the USB ports on the rear of the center
console.](../../images/GUID-39512611-F7CF-4AE0-9AA3-CE25F124BA1F-online-en-
US.png)

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Power is available whenever the vehicle is considered "awake". The vehicle may
be awake for many reasons. For example, when using features such as Summon, or
when features such as Preconditioning, Keep Climate On, Dog Mode, Camp Mode,
Sentry Mode, etc. are enabled. The vehicle is also awake whenever the low
voltage battery is being charged or is in use, during HV charging, when the
vehicle is communicating with the mobile app, etc. Leaving an accessory
plugged in does not deplete the low voltage battery.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Use USB 3.0 compliant cables to connect a device to a USB port. Using non-
compliant cables can result in slower charging, potential connection problems
or degraded performance.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Do not connect multiple devices using a USB hub. This can prevent connected
devices from charging or from being recognized by Media Player, Sentry Mode,
Dashcam, etc.

## Wireless Phone Charger

A wireless phone charger (if equipped), is integrated into the front console
to provide up to 15W of power to charge a Qi-enabled phone. Simply place your
phone on the charger. Your device may feel warm while charging, but this is a
normal effect of inductive charging.

When placed on the wireless charger, your phone charges whenever the vehicle
is powered on (the touchscreen is on and you are inside the vehicle). Your
phone will not charge after exiting the vehicle unless a feature (such as
Sentry mode) is enabled and providing power to the USB ports. Model 3 will
also not charge a phone if the vehicle's Battery is discharged.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The wireless phone charger may not work if your phone case is too large or is
made of metal. Try removing the phone from its case before placing in the
charger.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

The phone must be in direct contact with the wireless charger. Do not place
objects between the phone and the charger (for example, credit cards, key
cards, coins, keys, metal objects, etc.).

##  Low Voltage Power Socket

Your Model 3 has a power socket located in the center console's rear
compartment.

![Zoombox showing the location of the power socket within the center
console.](../../images/GUID-AF5708A0-F8FD-41B8-8561-188192E96A65-online-en-
US.png)

The power socket is suitable for accessories requiring up to 12A continuous
draw (16A peak).

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

For vehicles manufactured after approximately November 2021, power inverters
plugged into the low voltage power socket must support 16V DC input to
function.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Power is available whenever the vehicle is considered "awake". The vehicle may
be awake for many reasons. For example, when using features such as Summon, or
when features such as Preconditioning, Cabin Overheat Protection, Keep Climate
On, Dog Mode, Camp Mode, Sentry Mode, etc. are enabled. The vehicle is also
awake whenever the low voltage battery is being charged or is in use, during
HV charging, when the vehicle is communicating with the mobile app, etc.
Leaving an accessory plugged in does not deplete the low voltage battery.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

The power socket and an accessory’s connector can become hot.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

To prevent excessive interference with the vehicle’s electronics, Tesla
recommends that you do not plug any non-Tesla accessories, including power
inverters, into the low voltage power socket. However, if you do use a non-
Tesla accessory and notice any malfunctions or unexpected behavior, such as
indicator lights, alert messages, or excessive heat from the accessory, unplug
the accessory from the low voltage power socket immediately.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Do not attempt to jump start Model 3 using the low voltage power socket. Doing
so can result in damage.

  