

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Smart Summon

This feature may be temporarily limited or inactive until it is enabled with a
future software update for vehicles manufactured as of approximately October
2022.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

_Depending on market region, vehicle configuration, options purchased, and
software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Smart Summon, or the
feature may not operate exactly as described._

Smart Summon is designed to allow you to move Model 3 to your location (using
your phone's GPS as a target destination) or to a location of your choice,
maneuvering around and stopping for objects as necessary. Smart Summon works
with the Tesla mobile app when your phone is located within approximately 213
feet (65 meters) of Model 3. Smart Summon maneuvers Model 3 out of parking
spaces and around corners. This is useful for moving Model 3 out of a tight
parking spot, through puddles, or helping you retrieve your car while carrying
packages. You must maintain a clear line of sight between you and Model 3 and
closely monitor the vehicle and its surroundings at all times.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Ensure all cameras and sensors (if equipped) are clean. Dirty cameras and
sensors, as well as environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane
markings, can affect Autopilot performance.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Smart Summon is designed and intended for use only on parking lots and
driveways located on private property where the surrounding area is familiar
and predictable. Do not use Smart Summon on public roads.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Smart Summon must only be used on paved surfaces.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Smart Summon is a BETA feature. You must continually monitor the vehicle and
its surroundings and stay prepared to take immediate action at any time. It is
the driver's responsibility to use Smart Summon safely, responsibly, and as
intended.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Smart Summon may not stop for all objects (especially very low objects such as
some curbs, or very high objects such as a shelf) and may not react to all
traffic. Smart Summon does not recognize the direction of traffic, does not
navigate around empty parking spaces, and may not anticipate crossing traffic.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Smart Summon's performance depends on the sensors (if equipped), the
visibility of the cameras, and the availability of an adequate cellular signal
and GPS data.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When using Smart Summon, you must maintain a clear line of sight between you
and Model 3 and stay prepared to stop the vehicle at any time by releasing the
button on the mobile app.

**Parent topic:** Autopilot

## Before Using Smart Summon

  * Download the latest version of the Tesla mobile app to your phone, and ensure your phone has cellular service and GPS enabled.
  * Your phone must be connected to Model 3 and located within approximately 213 feet (65 meters).
  * The vehicle's cameras must be fully calibrated (see Drive to Calibrate Cameras).
  * You must have a clear line of sight to Model 3.
  * Model 3 must be in Park, not charging, and all doors and trunks must be closed.

## Using Smart Summon

  1. Open the Tesla mobile app, and press Summon.
  2. Press the Smart Summon icon located in the center of the image of your Model 3. It may take several seconds for Smart Summon to start up.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

You can use Standby Mode to eliminate the delay that occurs when Smart Summon
is starting up (see Standby Mode).

The mobile app displays a map with a blue circle, which represents the maximum
proximity of 213 feet (65 meters) that you must maintain between your phone
and Model 3. The blue dot on the map represents your location, and the red
arrow represents the vehicle.

  3. Position yourself anywhere within the blue circle where you have a clear line of sight to Model 3.
  4. You can now operate Smart Summon using either of these modes:
    * Come to Me mode: Press and hold the Come to Me button. Model 3 moves to your GPS location. As you move, Model 3 follows you. When Model 3 reaches you, it stops and shifts into park.
    * Go to Target mode: Touch the crosshair icon then drag the map to position the pin on a chosen destination. Press and hold the Go to Target button. Model 3 moves to the destination. When reaching the location, Model 3 stops and shifts into Park and the mobile app displays a message indicating that Summon has completed. 

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

To subsequently change the location, lift your finger, reposition the map,
then press and hold Go to Target again.

To stop Model 3 at any time, simply release the Come to Me or Go to Target
button.

![Crosshair icon](../../images/GUID-
BC8838D6-6DC4-4FCB-9536-6A617A84EAE2-online-en-US.png)

The map's crosshair icon toggles between Go to Target and Come to Me modes.
When Come to Me mode is selected, the icon is blue.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The map also has an icon that allows you to display/hide satellite imagery.

Immediately after initiating Smart Summon in either mode, hazard lights
briefly flash, mirrors fold, and Model 3 shifts into Drive or Reverse. Model 3
then slowly moves to within 3 feet (1 meter) of you (Come to Me) or your
chosen destination (Go to Target), navigating obstacles as needed. As Model 3
moves, the corresponding red arrow on the map also moves to show the vehicle’s
location. As you move, the corresponding blue dot also moves to show your
location.

In either mode, Model 3 stops moving and shifts into park when:

  * You release the button on the mobile app.
  * The maximum proximity between your phone and Model 3 is exceeded (if moving the vehicle to a destination away from you, you may need to follow the car to maintain this distance).
  * The driving path is blocked.
  * Model 3 has moved the maximum distance of 475 feet (145 meters) since the start of the Smart Summon session, or has moved 492 feet (150 meters) away from the location from which the vehicle was last driven manually.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If Smart Summon moves Model 3 forward three feet and then backwards two feet,
this is considered five feet of travel.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

There is no need to look at the mobile app—just hold down the button while
keeping your eye on Model 3 and its driving path at all times, remaining ready
to release the button to stop the vehicle if needed.

If equipped and Auto HomeLink is enabled for Summon (touch Controls >
Autopilot > Customize Summon > Use Auto HomeLink), Smart Summon automatically
opens a HomeLink device if you start the Smart Summon maneuver when Model 3 is
located inside a garage. The mobile app informs you that the door has opened.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

When you release the button to stop Model 3, a slight delay occurs before the
vehicle stops. Therefore, it is critical that you pay close attention to the
vehicle’s driving path at all times and proactively anticipate obstacles that
the vehicle may be unable to detect.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Use extreme caution when using Smart Summon in environments where movement of
obstacles can be unpredictable. For example, where people, children or animals
are present.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Smart Summon may not stop for all objects (especially very low objects such as
some curbs, or very high objects such as a shelf) and may not react to all
oncoming or side traffic. Pay attention and be ready to stop Model 3 at all
times by releasing the button on the mobile app.

## Standby Mode

To keep Model 3 ready to Summon and reduce the time it takes to warm up, turn
on Standby Mode. Touch Controls > Autopilot > Standby Mode. When Standby Mode
is turned on, you can conserve Battery energy by disabling Standby Mode at
these locations:

  * Exclude Home \- Disables Standby Mode at the location you set as Home in your Favorites list.
  * Exclude Work \- Disables Standby Mode at the location you set as Work in your Favorites list.
  * Exclude Favorites \- Disables Standby Mode at any location in your Favorites list.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

To conserve energy, Smart Summon automatically exits Standby mode from
midnight to 6:00 am. During these hours, a delay occurs as Smart Summon starts
up.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Additional battery power may be consumed while Standby Mode is active.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

For details on how to designate a location as Home, Work, or Favorites, see
Home, Work, and Favorite Destinations.

## Stopping or Canceling Smart Summon

Smart Summon stops Model 3 whenever you release the button on the mobile app.
To resume the Smart Summon session, simply press the Come to Me or Go to
Target button again.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Always anticipate when you need to stop Model 3. Depending on the quality of
the connectivity between the phone and Model 3, there may be a slight delay
between when you release the button and when the car stops.

Smart Summon cancels, and requires you to restart it, when:

  * A door handle is engaged or a door is opened.
  * You interact with the steering wheel, brake pedal, accelerator pedal, or shift.
  * Model 3 is blocked by an obstacle.
  * Smart Summon has moved Model 3 the maximum distance. To move further than this distance, you must shift Model 3 into Drive or Reverse and then re-initiate a Smart Summon session.
  * Your phone enters sleep mode or loses connectivity to Model 3.

## Limitations

Smart Summon is unlikely to operate as intended in the following types of
situations:

  * GPS data is unavailable due to poor cellular coverage.
  * The driving path is sloped. Smart Summon is designed to operate on flat roads only (up to 10% grade).
  * A raised concrete edge is detected. Depending on the height of the concrete edge, Smart Summon may not move Model 3 over it.
  * One or more of the sensors (if equipped) or cameras is damaged, dirty, or obstructed (such as by mud, ice, or snow, or by a vehicle bra, excessive paint, or adhesive products such as wraps, stickers, rubber coating, etc.).
  * Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are interfering with sensor (if equipped) or camera operation.
  * The sensors (if equipped) are affected by other electrical equipment or devices that generate ultrasonic waves.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Smart Summon is disabled if Model 3 is in Valet mode (see Valet Mode).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

The list above does not represent an exhaustive list of situations that may
interfere with proper operation of Smart Summon. It is the driver's
responsibility to remain in control of Model 3 at all times. Pay close
attention whenever Smart Summon is actively moving Model 3 and stay prepared
to take immediate action. Failure to do so can result in serious property
damage, injury or death.

  