

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Instructions for Transporters

**Parent topic:** Roadside Assistance

## DO NOT TRANSPORT WITH WHEELS ON THE GROUND

The motor(s) in Model 3 generates power when the wheels spin. Always transport
Model 3 with all four tires off the ground. Ensure that the tires are unable
to spin at any time during transport.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

NEVER TRANSPORT YOUR VEHICLE WITH THE TIRES IN A POSITION WHERE THEY CAN SPIN.
DOING SO CAN LEAD TO SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE AND OVERHEATING. IN RARE CASES EXTREME
OVERHEATING MAY CAUSE THE SURROUNDING COMPONENTS TO IGNITE.

![Model 3 being towed with rear wheels on ground and front wheels lifted by a
tow truck and a red "X" to indicate this should not be
performed.](../../images/GUID-A5E485AD-6F1B-41AA-839F-7F246DC3349E-online-en-
US.png) ![Model 3 being transported with all four wheels on ground behind an
RV and a red "X" to indicate this should not be
performed.](../../images/GUID-0E30AE2A-BF7D-4834-AC5C-219891F19296-online-en-
US.png)

Do not transport Model 3 using any method that is not specified by Tesla.
Adhere to the instructions provided in the following sections and observe all
warnings and cautions provided. Damage caused by improper transporting of your
vehicle is not covered by the warranty.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Tesla is not liable or responsible for reimbursing services not dispatched
through Tesla Roadside Assistance.

## Approved Methods for Transporting

A flatbed truck or comparable transport vehicle is the recommended method of
transporting Model 3. The vehicle can face either direction when using a
flatbed.

![Vehicle on a flatbed
truck.](../../images/GUID-1009CA4F-29D9-40F4-8F68-85E690D26360-online-en-
US.png)

If Model 3 must be transported without a flatbed truck, then wheel lifts and
dollies must be used to ensure that all four wheels are off of the ground.
This method may only be used for a maximum of 35 miles (55 km), and must not
exceed the manufacturer speed rating of the dollies. With this method, Tesla
recommends the vehicle facing forward so that the front wheels are lifted and
the rear wheels are on dollies.

![Vehicle being towed with front wheels lifted by a tow truck and rear wheels
on dollies.](../../images/GUID-212C2200-8B08-46B7-9EAA-5451FB18A3CF-online-en-
US.png)

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Enable Transport Mode (see Activate Transport Mode) before winching Model 3
onto a flatbed truck (see Pull onto the Flatbed Truck). If Transport Mode is
not available or the touchscreen is not accessible, self-loading dollies or
tire skates must be used to load the vehicle into the approved transportation
position. Tesla is not responsible for any damage caused by or during the
transport of Model 3, including personal property damage or damage caused by
using self-loading dollies or tire skates.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Transport Mode is only intended to allow for winching Model 3 onto a flatbed
truck or repositioning the vehicle out of a parking space. While in Transport
Mode, the tires are allowed to rotate slowly (under 3 mph or 5 km/h) and for a
very short distance (less than 30 feet or 10 meters). See Activate Transport
Mode. Exceeding these boundaries can lead to significant damage and
overheating that is not covered by the warranty.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Model 3 is equipped with high voltage components that may be compromised as a
result of a collision (see High Voltage Components). Before transporting Model
3, it is important to assume these components are energized. Always follow
high voltage safety precautions (wearing personal protection equipment, etc.)
until emergency response professionals have evaluated the vehicle and can
accurately confirm that all high voltage systems are no longer energized.
Failure to do so may result in serious injury.

## Activate Transport Mode

Transport Mode keeps the parking brake disengaged while winching Model 3 onto
a flatbed truck. When active, Transport Mode displays a message indicating
that the vehicle will remain free-rolling. To enable Transport Mode:

  * Low voltage power is required. You will be unable to use the touchscreen to activate Transport Mode if Model 3 has no power.
  * Model 3 must detect a key. Transport Mode is available only when a key is detected.

To activate Transport Mode:

  1. Ensure Model 3 is in Park.
  2. Chock the tires or make sure Model 3 is secure.
  3. Press and hold the brake pedal, then on the touchscreen, touch Controls > Service > Towing. The touchscreen displays a message reminding you how to properly transport Model 3.
  4. Press and hold the Transport Mode button until it turns blue. Model 3 is now free-rolling and can slowly be rolled (no faster than walking speed) or winched.

To cancel Transport Mode, shift Model 3 into Park.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If your vehicle is equipped with a lead-acid low voltage battery (see Jump
Starting): Transport Mode may cancel if Model 3 loses low voltage power after
Transport Mode is enabled.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

If the electrical system is not working, and you therefore cannot use the
touchscreen to activate Transport Mode, use self-loading dollies or tire
skates. Before doing so, always check the manufacturer's specifications and
recommended loading capacity.

## Pull onto the Flatbed Truck

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If Model 3 has no low voltage power, you need an external low voltage power
supply to open the hood or use the touchscreen (see Jump Starting).

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

To avoid damage, only pull the vehicle onto a flatbed truck using a properly-
installed tow eye. Using the chassis, frame, or suspension components to pull
the vehicle can result in damage.

  1. Locate the tow eye. The tow eye is located in the front trunk.![Arrow pointing to the tow eye in the front trunk.](../../images/GUID-1AE0EAAD-9AF6-4E4E-95D2-9200CDA7884C-online-en-US.png)
  2. Release the tow eye cover by pressing firmly on its top right perimeter until it pivots inward, then gently pull the raised section toward you.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

The tow eye cover is connected to the vehicle's black negative (-) terminal.

![Arrow pointing to the vehicle's tow eye
cover.](../../images/GUID-0418EFAC-A536-435C-97C9-747990E8029C-online-en-
US.png)

  3. Fully insert the tow eye into the opening, then turn it counter-clockwise until securely fastened.![Tow eye installed and an arrow showing that it is rotated counter-clockwise.](../../images/GUID-E4E19883-DA89-48D5-A275-01314E7BEB61-online-en-US.png)
  4. Attach the winch cable to the tow eye.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Before pulling, make sure the tow eye is securely tightened.

  5. Activate Transport Mode.
  6. Pull Model 3 slowly onto the flatbed truck.

## Secure the Tires

The vehicle's tires must be secured onto the truck using the eight-point tie-
down method:

  * Ensure any metal parts on the tie-down straps do not contact painted surfaces or the face of the wheels.
  * Do not place tie-down straps over the body panels or through the wheels.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Attaching the tie-down straps to the chassis, suspension or other parts of the
vehicle's body may cause damage.

![View of the rear wheel with tie-down straps
installed.](../../images/GUID-73668E5E-C91C-49ED-9723-DF2DCF66C814-online-en-
US.png)

## If Vehicle Has No Power

If Model 3 has no low voltage power, perform the following steps to open the
hood or jump start the low voltage battery.

  1. Open the hood. See Opening Hood with No Power for more information on opening the hood if the vehicle does not have power.
  2. Jump start the low voltage battery (see Jump Starting).

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Tow providers: See Running Out of Range for more information on transporting
the vehicle to a charging station and preparing the vehicle to charge.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Because the windows automatically lower slightly when you open or close a
door, always connect to an external, low voltage power supply before opening a
door if the vehicle has no power to avoid breaking a window (see Jump
Starting).

  