

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Jump Starting

The procedure for jump starting differs depending on whether the low voltage
battery is lead-acid or lithium-ion. To determine which battery your vehicle
uses, touch Controls > Software > Additional Vehicle Information. Both
procedures are provided in this section.

The following instructions assume you are using an external low voltage power
supply (such as a portable jump starter). If jump starting Model 3 using
another vehicle, refer to the vehicle manufacturer's instructions.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Model 3 cannot be used to jump start another vehicle. Doing so can result in
damage.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Avoid short circuits when jump starting Model 3. Connecting cables to the
wrong jump post, touching leads together, etc., can damage Model 3.

**Parent topic:** Roadside Assistance

## Jump Starting the Low Voltage (Lead-Acid) Battery

_Vehicles manufactured in Gigafactory Shanghai before approximately October
2021, and in the Fremont Factory before approximately December 2021, are
equipped with a Lead-Acid low voltage battery._

If jump starting Model 3 using another vehicle, refer to that vehicle
manufacturer's instructions. The following instructions assume you are using
an external low voltage power supply (such as a portable jump starter).

![Animation showing the following
procedure.](../../images/GUID-524C33FF-D6BD-48DF-94B7-5EE952451C0E-online-en-
US.gif)

  1. Open the hood (see Opening Hood with No Power).
  2. Remove the maintenance panel by pulling it upwards to release the trim clips that hold it in place.
  3. Remove the cabin intake trim panel by pulling it upwards to release the trim clips that hold it in place.
  4. Connect the low voltage power supply's red positive (+) cable to the red positive (+) terminal on the low voltage battery.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

To avoid damaging Model 3, do not allow the positive cable to contact other
metal components, such as the battery tie-down bracket.

  5. Connect the low voltage power supply's black negative (-) cable to the black negative (-) terminal on the low voltage battery.
  6. Turn on the external power supply (refer to the manufacturer’s instructions). Touch the touchscreen to wake it up.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

It may take several minutes to receive enough power to wake up the
touchscreen.

  7. When external low voltage power is no longer required, disconnect both cables from the terminals on the battery, beginning with the black negative (-) cable.
  8. Reinstall the cabin intake trim panel by placing it back in its original location and pressing down until it is secure.
  9. Replace the maintenance panel by placing it back in its original location and pressing down until it is secure.
  10. Close the hood.

## Jump Starting the Low Voltage (Lithium-Ion) Battery

_Vehicles manufactured in Gigafactory Shanghai after approximately October
2021, and in the Fremont Factory after approximately December 2021, are
equipped with a Lithium-Ion low voltage battery._

  1. Open the hood (see Opening Hood with No Power).
  2. Remove the maintenance panel by pulling it upwards to release the trim clips that hold it in place.
  3. Remove the red cover and connect the external low voltage power supply’s red positive (+) cable to the red positive (+) jump post. 

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

To avoid damaging the vehicle, do not allow the positive cable to contact
other metal components.

![low voltage power supply positive cable connecting to positive
terminal.](../../images/GUID-7E62D8F5-74D2-42BC-81C1-BE9DE138B4FB-online-en-
US.png)

  4. Connect the external low voltage power supply’s black negative (-) cable to the bolt located between the brake fluid reservoir and the front trunk. The bolt is used as a grounding location for the external support.![low voltage power supply negative cable connecting to negative terminal.](../../images/GUID-828CDCB9-296C-4791-85D4-801EE429AB11-online-en-US.png)
  5. Turn on the external power supply (refer to the manufacturer’s instructions) for 20-30 seconds.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

If you leave the power supply on for longer than 30 seconds, the low voltage
battery may not self-recover and the vehicle might not be able to shift into
Drive. Disconnect the power supply and the low voltage battery to enable
another battery self-recovery attempt.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

If attempting to activate Transport Mode (to winch the vehicle onto a flatbed
truck), the low voltage battery is not required to self-recover. Leave the
power supply connected continuously until the vehicle has been secured.

  6. Open the driver door and wait two minutes.
  7. Ensure the vehicle is able to shift into Drive.
  8. Replace the maintenance panel by placing it back in its original location and pressing down until it is secure.
  9. Close the hood.

  