

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Windshield Wiper Blades, Jets and Fluid

**Parent topic:** Maintenance

## Topping Up Windshield Washer Fluid

The only reservoir into which you can add fluid is the windshield washer fluid
reservoir, which is located behind the front trunk. When the level is low, a
message displays on the touchscreen.

To top up the washer fluid:

  1. Open the hood.
  2. Clean around the filler cap before opening it to prevent dirt from entering the reservoir.
  3. Open the filler cap.
  4. While avoiding spilling, fill the reservoir until the fluid level is visible just below the filler neck. The reservoir has a capacity of 3.2 liters.![Filler cap with a zoombox showing target fill amount.](../../images/GUID-A1FFFECC-8015-4DDF-B01E-03F519F235E9-online-en-US.png)
  5. Wipe up any spills immediately and wash the affected area with water.
  6. Reinstall the filler cap.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Use only windshield washer fluid meant for automotive vehicles. Using other
substances, such as untreated water, can result in bacterial growth within the
climate control system resulting in odor or potential damage that is not
covered by warranty.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Some national or local regulations restrict the use of Volatile Organic
Compounds (VOCs). VOCs are commonly used as antifreeze in washer fluid. Use a
washer fluid with limited VOC content only if it provides adequate freeze
resistance for all climates in which you drive Model 3.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Do not add formulated washer fluids that contain water repellent or bug wash.
These fluids can cause streaking, smearing, and squeaking or other noises.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

In temperatures below 40° F (4° C), use a washer fluid with antifreeze. In
cold weather, using a washer fluid without antifreeze can impair visibility
through the windshield.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Windshield washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin. Read and observe the
instructions provided by the washer fluid manufacturer.

## Checking and Cleaning Wiper Blades

Periodically clean the edge of the wiper blades and check the rubber for
cracks, splits, and roughness. If damaged, replace the blade immediately to
prevent damage to the glass and improve visibility.

Contaminants on the windshield, or on the wiper blades, can reduce the
effectiveness of the wipers. Contaminants include ice, wax spray from car
washes, washer fluid with bug and/or water repellent, bird droppings, tree
sap, and other organic substances.

Follow these guidelines for cleaning:

  * Clean the windshield and wiper blades using washer fluid, isopropyl (rubbing) alcohol, or non-abrasive glass cleaner approved for use on automotive glass and rubber. Inappropriate products can cause damage or smears, and create glare on the windshield.
  * Lift the wiper arm a short distance away from the windshield, just far enough to access the wiper blade. Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended position.

If the wipers remain ineffective after cleaning, replace the wiper blades.

## Replacing Wiper Blades

For optimum performance, replace the wiper blades at least once a year.
Replacement blades must meet the following criteria:

  * The blade on the driver's side must be 26 inches (650 mm) long and 19 inches (475 mm) long for the blade on the passenger's side.
  * Ensure the connector on the replacement blade is the same as the original blade. Different connectors may prevent the replacement blade from connecting to the wiper arm on the vehicle.

You can purchase replacement wiper blades on the Tesla Shop.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Only install replacement blades that are identical to the original blades.
Using inappropriate blades can damage the wiper system and windshield.

To replace the wiper blades:

![Animated video showing how to replace wiper
blades](../../images/GUID-867AFBED-E963-4C01-9ED5-F592FD2F2CF1-online-en-
US.gif)

  1. Shift into Park and turn off the wipers.
  2. Touch Controls > Service > Wiper Service Mode to move the wipers to the service position.
  3. Lift the wiper arm a short distance away from the windshield, just far enough to access the wiper blade.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

CAUTION

Wiper blades do not lock into a lifted position. Do not lift a wiper arm
beyond its intended position.

  4. Place a towel between the wiper arm and windshield to avoid scratching or cracking the windshield.
  5. Hold the wiper arm and press the locking tab while sliding the blade down the arm.
  6. Align the new wiper blade on the wiper arm and slide it toward the end of the wiper arm until it locks into place.
  7. Turn Wiper Service Mode off to return the wipers to their normal position.

## Cleaning Washer Jets

If a windshield washer becomes blocked, use a thin strand of wire to clear any
blockages from the nozzles.

![Zoombox with washer jets pointing to the underside of the washer
blade](../../images/GUID-97DFB8B5-81D8-473F-8674-7881CAB6FE8B-online-en-
US.png)

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Do not operate the washers while cleaning Model 3. Windshield washer fluid can
irritate eyes and skin. Read and observe the washer fluid manufacturer’s
instructions.

  