

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# About this Owner Information

**Parent topic:** Consumer Information

## Document Applicability

For the latest and greatest information that is customized to your vehicle,
view the Owner’s Manual on your vehicle’s touchscreen by touching Controls >
Service > Owner's Manual. The information is specific to your vehicle
depending on the features you purchased, vehicle configuration, market region
and software version. In contrast, owner information that is provided by Tesla
elsewhere is updated as necessary and may not contain information unique to
your vehicle.

Information about new features is displayed on the touchscreen after a
software update, and can be viewed at any time by touching Controls > Software
> Release Notes. If the content in the Owner's Manual on how to use your
vehicle conflicts with information in the Release Notes, the Release Notes
take precedence.

## Illustrations

The illustrations provided in this document are for demonstration purposes
only. Depending on vehicle options, software version and market region, the
information displayed on the touchscreen in your vehicle may appear slightly
different.

## Feature Availability

Some features are available only on some vehicle configurations and/or only in
specific market regions. Options or features mentioned in the Owner's Manual
does not guarantee they are available on your specific vehicle. See Feature
Availability Statement for more information.

## Errors or Inaccuracies

All specifications and descriptions are known to be accurate at time of
publishing. However, because continuous improvement is a goal at Tesla, we
reserve the right to make product modifications at any time. To communicate
any inaccuracies or omissions, or to provide general feedback or suggestions
regarding the quality of the Owner's Manual, send an email to
ownersmanualfeedback@tesla.com.

## Location of Components

Owner information may specify the location of a component as being on the left
or right side of the vehicle. As shown, left (1) and right (2) represent the
side of the vehicle when sitting inside.

![Top view of the vehicle with a 1 on left side of the vehicle and a 2 on the
right side of the
vehicle.](../../images/GUID-79B2FB04-B91E-400A-949F-12C5A08B4EE5-online-en-
US.png)

## Copyrights and Trademarks

© 2012-2023 Tesla, Inc. All information in this document and all vehicle
software is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of
Tesla, Inc. and its licensors. This material may not be modified, reproduced
or copied, in whole or in part, without the prior written permission of Tesla,
Inc. and its licensors. Additional information is available upon request.
Tesla uses software created by the Open Source community. Please visit Tesla’s
Open Source software website at www.tesla.com/opensource. HD Radio is a
registered trademark of iBiquity Digital Corporation. The following are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Tesla, Inc. in the United States and
other countries:

![Various Tesla trademarked words, logos,
etc.](../../images/GUID-915CC8F8-A105-4D81-8AB8-8FA566809F6C-online-en-US.png)

All other trademarks contained in this document are the property of their
respective owners and their use herein does not imply sponsorship or
endorsement of their products or services. The unauthorized use of any
trademark displayed in this document or on the vehicle is strictly prohibited.

  