

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Using this Owner's Manual

To find what you are looking for, type keywords into the search bar at the top
of the screen (once selected, you may need to scroll down to find the
content). You can also navigate the content by tapping the navigation icons in
the side menu (at the bottom on a mobile device).

## YOUR OWNER'S MANUAL

For the latest and greatest information that is customized to your vehicle,
view the Owner’s Manual on your vehicle’s touchscreen by touching Controls >
Service > Owner's Manual. The information is specific to your vehicle
depending on the features you purchased, vehicle configuration, market region
and software version. In contrast, owner information that is provided by Tesla
elsewhere is updated as necessary and may not contain information unique to
your vehicle.

## RELEASE NOTES

Information about new features is displayed on the touchscreen after a
software update, and can be viewed at any time by touching Controls > Software
> Release Notes. If the content in the Owner's Manual on how to use your
vehicle conflicts with information in the Release Notes, the Release Notes
take precedence.

## ILLUSTRATIONS AND PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS

The illustrations provided in this document are for demonstration purposes
only. Depending on vehicle options, software version and market region, the
information displayed on the touchscreen in your vehicle may appear slightly
different.

All specifications and descriptions contained in this document are verified to
be accurate at the time of printing. However, because continuous improvement
is a goal at Tesla, we reserve the right to make product modifications at any
time. To communicate any inaccuracies or omissions in this document, please
send an email to: ownersmanualfeedback@tesla.com.

## SAFETY INFORMATION

You can find safety information in your Model 3 Owner's Manual on the
touchscreen.

For detailed information about your Model 3, go to the Tesla website for your
region, log on to your Tesla account, or sign up to get an account.

If you have any questions or concerns about your Model 3, call 1-877-79TESLA
(1-877-798-3752).

## © 2012-2023 TESLA, INC.

All information in this document and all vehicle software is subject to
copyright and other intellectual property rights of Tesla, Inc. and its
licensors. This material may not be modified, reproduced or copied, in whole
or in part, without the prior written permission of Tesla, Inc. and its
licensors. Additional information is available upon request. Shown here are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Tesla, Inc. in the United States and
other countries:

![Trademarks or registered trademarks of Tesla,
Inc.](../../images/GUID-D2061DDB-6E91-4C76-8648-7706DA2EBE9E-online-en-US.png)

**Parent topic:*