

#

Model 3 Owner's Manual

# Full Self-Driving (Beta)

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

As Full Self-Driving (Beta) deployment expands, Tesla will gradually make it
available to eligible customers in select countries outside the United States.
Because every country contains unique infrastructure, driving behaviors, and
traffic patterns that Full Self-Driving (Beta) must adapt to over time, it is
essential for drivers using Full Self-Driving (Beta) in newly eligible
countries to be extra attentive and overly cautious. You must be ready to take
over safely at any time.

Full Self-Driving (Beta) is an early access feature and must be used with
additional caution. When Full Self-Driving (Beta) is actively engaged, Model 3
attempts to navigate to your destination, by following road curves, adjusting
speed for traffic, stopping at and negotiating intersections, making turns,
selecting forks, and entering/exiting highways.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Full Self-Driving (Beta) does not make Model 3 autonomous and may not perform
as expected at all times **– do not become complacent**. It requires a fully
attentive driver who is ready to take immediate action at all times. Full
Self-Driving (Beta) does not replace the driver’s responsibility to operate
Model 3.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Failure to follow all warnings and instructions can result in property damage,
serious injury or death.

**Parent topic:** Autopilot

## Full Self-Driving (Beta) Settings

To enable Full Self-Driving (Beta), touch Controls > Autopilot > Autopilot
Features > Full Self-Driving (Beta) and then, after carefully reading and
understanding the popup window, touch Yes.

If desired, change the setting for Full Self-Driving (Beta) Profile from the
default setting of Average to Chill or Assertive. Chill provides a more
relaxed driving style and Assertive drives with more urgency.

## How to Use Full Self-Driving (Beta)

  1. ![Icon of a gray steering wheel.](../../images/GUID-26B1827C-F8BB-4337-BB1F-32BB4CE58000-online-en-US.png)

**Engage Full Self-Driving (Beta):** Enter a destination (if desired) and when
the touchscreen displays the gray steering wheel icon indicating that
Autosteer is available, move the drive stalk fully down twice in quick
succession. If you do not enter a destination, Model 3 chooses the most
probable driving path or suggests a destination based on your driving.

![icon of blue steering
wheel](../../images/GUID-63865536-1601-4363-B11F-5483D13C823E-online-en-
US.png)

When Full Self-Driving (Beta) is engaged, the steering wheel icon is blue and
a blue line represents your driving path.

The touchscreen displays a visualization of the environment surrounding Model
3, including the roadway and detected objects such as vehicles, pedestrians,
curbs, etc.

![](../../images/GUID-42A7BAF7-B96B-4889-A999-7A19C4A8317D-online-en-US.png)

  2. **Be ready to take over:** There may be occasions where driver intervention is required and you must take over immediately to maintain safe driving. For example, the vehicle may alert you or the visualization may indicate indecisiveness by incessant flickering. 

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Practicing a safe disengage before it is necessary is ideal.

In addition, like Autosteer, Full Self-Driving (Beta) checks for driver
attentiveness and requires your hands on the steering wheel at all times. If
your hands are not detected, the touchscreen displays escalating warnings and
failure to respond to these warnings cancels Full Self-Driving (Beta) until
your next drive.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Failure to use Full Self-Driving (Beta) appropriately may cause the feature to
be disabled.

  3. **Safe disengage:** To disengage Full Self-Driving (Beta) safely, be aware of your surroundings and push the drive stalk up once, press the brake pedal, or take over and steer manually. 

When arriving at a chosen destination, Full Self-Driving (Beta) stops Model 3
and displays a message indicating that navigation is complete.

Informational PurposesAn informational icon, calling your attention

Note

Full Self-Driving (Beta) uses Tesla's vision-based system and therefore radar
(if equipped) is disabled.

## Tips

  * **Fullscreen visualization:** You can widen the visualization area to fullscreen. First enable the setting by touching Controls > Autopilot > Full Self-Driving > Expanded Full Self-Driving Visualization. Then on the touchscreen, swipe the visualization window handle to fill the entire screen.
  * Using the right scroll wheel on the steering wheel, tilt left or right to change your Full Self-Driving profile or Traffic-Aware Cruise Control follow distance settings. This will also bring up the FSD Autopilot Settings card if applicable.
  * **Feedback:**

![Icon of a the snapshot
feature.](../../images/GUID-7E0C71F4-87A2-4B2C-A345-8BEF6A609F10-online-en-
US.png)

If you experience incorrect or unexpected behavior, touch the snapshot icon
(if equipped) at the top of the touchscreen to send data to Tesla for
analysis. Tesla uses this data to improve the intelligence of Full Self-
Driving (Beta).

  * **Maintain software updates and cameras:** Always remember that Full Self-Driving (Beta) does not make Model 3 autonomous. Full autonomy is dependent on achieving reliability far in excess of human drivers as demonstrated by billions of miles of experience, as well as regulatory approval. As Tesla’s Full Self-Driving capabilities evolve, Model 3 is continuously upgraded through over-the-air software updates. Download updates as soon as they become available. To ensure an optimum experience, keep all cameras clean and unobstructed.

## Limitations

Full Self-Driving (Beta) and its associated functions may not operate as
intended and there are numerous situations in which driver intervention may be
needed. Examples include (but are not limited to):

  * Interactions with pedestrians, bicyclists, and other road users.
  * Unprotected turns with high-speed cross traffic.
  * Multi-lane turns.
  * Simultaneous lane changes.
  * Narrow roads with oncoming cars or double-parked vehicles.
  * Rare objects such as trailers, ramps, cargo, open doors, etc. protruding from vehicles.
  * Merges onto high-traffic, high-speed roads.
  * Debris in the road.
  * Construction zones.
  * High curvature roads, particularly at fast driving speeds.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

In addition, visibility is critical for Full Self-Driving (Beta) to operate.
Low visibility, such as low light or poor weather conditions (rain, snow,
direct sun, fog, etc.) can significantly degrade performance.

Warning IconA warning icon, calling your attention to a possibly risky
situation

Warning

Model 3 may quickly and suddenly make unexpected maneuvers or mistakes that
require immediate driver intervention. The list above represents only a
fraction of the possible scenarios that can cause Full Self-Driving (Beta) to
make sudden maneuvers and behave unexpectedly. In fact, Model 3 can suddenly
swerve even when driving conditions appear normal and straight-forward. Stay
alert and always pay attention to the roadway so you can anticipate the need
to take corrective action as early as possible. Remember that this is an early
access feature that must be used with extra caution.

  